ubuntu.md, before:

# Setup instructions

You will find below the instructions to set up you computer for [Le Wagon Web Development course](https://www.lewagon.com/web-development-course/full-time)

Please **read them carefully and execute all commands in the following order**. If you get stuck, don't hesitate to ask a teacher for help :raising_hand:

Let's start :rocket:


## Zoom

To be able to interact when we are not in the same physical room, we will be using [Zoom](https://zoom.us/), a video conferencing tool.

:warning: If you already have Zoom installed, please make sure that the version is at least **5.6**.

To create an account and install the app:
- Go to [https://zoom.us/download](https://zoom.us/download)
- Under **Zoom Client** click the **Download** button
- Open the file you have just downloaded to install the app
- Open the Zoom app
- If you already have a Zoom account, sign in using your credentials
- If not, click on the **Sign Up Free** link:

![Sign Up Free to Zoom](images/zoom_sign_up_free.png)

You will be redirected to Zoom's website to complete a form.

When it's done, go back to the Zoom app and sign in using your credentials.

You should then see a screen like this:

![Zoom Home Screen](images/zoom_home_screen.png)

You can now close the Zoom app.


## GitHub account

Have you signed up to GitHub? If not, [do it right away](https://github.com/join).

:point_right: **[Upload a picture](https://github.com/settings/profile)** and put your name correctly on your GitHub account. This is important as we'll use an internal dashboard with your avatars. Please do this **now**, before you continue with this guide.

![GitHub picture](images/github_picture.png)


## Git

### Installation

[`git`](https://git-scm.com/) is a command line software used for version control.

To install `git`:
- Open a terminal
- Copy and paste the following commands:

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y git
````

:warning: When you you type your password, nothing will show up on the screen, **that's normal**. This is a security feature to mask not only your password as a whole but also its length. Just type your password and when you're done, press `ENTER`.

### GitHub CLI

Let's now install [GitHub official CLI](https://cli.github.com) (Command Line Interface). It's a software used to interact with your GitHub account via the command line.

In you terminal, copy-paste the following commands and type in your password if asked:

```bash
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-key C99B11DEB97541F0
sudo apt-add-repository https://cli.github.com/packages
sudo apt update
```

Then copy-paste the following command:

```bash
sudo apt install -y gh

```

To check that `gh` has been successfully installed on your machine, you can run:

```bash
gh --version
```

:white_check_mark: If you see `gh version X.Y.Z (YYYY-MM-DD)`, you're good to go :+1:

:x: Otherwise, please **contact a teacher**


## Visual Studio Code

### Installation

Let's install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) text editor.

Copy (`CTRL` + `C`) the commands below then paste them in your terminal (`CTRL` + `SHIFT` + `v`):

```bash
wget -q https://packages.microsoft.com/keys/microsoft.asc -O- | sudo apt-key add -
sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://packages.microsoft.com/repos/vscode stable main"
sudo apt update
sudo apt install code
```

:point_up: This command will ask for your password with: `[sudo] password for <username>:`.

Don't panick! Calmly type your password key by key. You won't have a visual feedback (like little `*`), that's **perfectly normal**, keep on typing. When you're done, hit `Enter` :muscle:.

### Launching from the terminal

Now let's try to launch your VS Code from **the terminal**:

```bash
code
```

You can move forward!


## VS Code Extensions

### Installation

Let's install some useful extensions to VS Code.

- Open your terminal
- Copy the commands below
- Paste it in your terminal

```bash
code --install-extension ms-vscode.sublime-keybindings
code --install-extension rebornix.ruby
code --install-extension dbaeumer.vscode-eslint
code --install-extension MS-vsliveshare.vsliveshare
code --install-extension emmanuelbeziat.vscode-great-icons
```

Here is a list of the extensions you are installing:
- [Sublime Text Keymap and Settings Importer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.sublime-keybindings)
- [Ruby](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rebornix.Ruby)
- [ESLint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint)
- [Live Share](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MS-vsliveshare.vsliveshare)
- [VSCode Great Icons](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=emmanuelbeziat.vscode-great-icons)

### Live Share configuration

[Visual Studio Live Share](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/services/live-share/) is a VS Code extension which allows you to share the code in your text editor for debugging and pair-programming: let's set it up!

Launch VS Code from your terminal by typing `code` and pressing `ENTER`.

Click on the little arrow at the bottom of the left bar :point_down:

![VS Code Live Share](images/vscode_live_share.png)

- Click on the "Share" button, then on "GitHub (Sign in using GitHub account)".
- A popup appears asking you to sign in with GitHub: click on "Allow".
- You are redirected to a GitHub page in you browser asking you to authorize Visual Studio Code: click on "Continue" then "Authorize github".
- VS Code may display additional pop-ups: close them by clicking "OK".

That's it, you're good to go!


## Oh-my-zsh - Fancy your terminal

We will use the shell named `zsh` instead of `bash`, the default one.

In a terminal execute the following command and type in your password if asked:

```bash
sudo apt install -y zsh curl vim imagemagick jq
```

Then copy-paste the following command:

```bash
sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh/master/tools/install.sh)"

```

When asked "Do you want to change your default shell to zsh?", press `Y`

At the end your terminal should look like this:

![Ubuntu terminal with OhMyZsh](images/oh_my_zsh.png)

:white_check_mark: If it does, you're good to go :+1:

:x: Otherwise, please **ask for a teacher**


## SSH Key

### Generation

We need to generate SSH keys which are going to be used by GitHub to authenticate you. You can think of it as a way to log in, but different from the well known username/password couple.

If you already generated keys that you already use with other services, you can skip this step.

Open a terminal and copy-paste this command, replacing the email with **yours** (the same one you used to create your GitHub account).

It will prompt for information. Just press enter until it asks for a **passphrase**.

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.ssh && ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -o -a 100 -f ~/.ssh/id_ed25519 -C "TYPE_YOUR_EMAIL@HERE.com"
```

:warning: When asked for a passphrase, put something you want and that you'll remember. It's a password to protect your private key stored on your hard drive.

:warning: When you you type your passphrase, nothing will show up on the screen, **that's normal**. This is a security feature to mask not only your passphrase as a whole but also its length. Just type your passphrase and when you're done, press `ENTER`.

### Giving your public key to GitHub

Now, you will give your **public** key to GitHub.

In your terminal copy-paste the following command:

```bash
cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub
```

It will prompt on the screen the content of the `id_ed25519.pub` file.

- Copy that text from `ssh` to the end of your email address
- Go to [github.com/settings/ssh](https://github.com/settings/keys)
- Click on the green button `New SSH key`
- Fill in the Title with your computer name (`Macbook Pro` for instance)
- Paste the **key**
- Finish by clicking on the **Add SSH key** green button.

To check that this step is completed, in the terminal run this.

```bash
ssh -T git@github.com
```

:warning: You will be prompted a warning, type `yes` then `ENTER`.

This is the expected result:

```
# Hi --------! You've successfully authenticated, but GitHub does not provide shell access
```

:white_check_mark: If you got this message, the keys were added successfully :+1:

:x: If you encountered an error, you will have to try again. Do not hesitate to **contact a teacher**.

<details>
  <summary>If <code>ssh -T git@github.com</code> does not work</summary>

  Try running this command before trying again:

  ```bash
  ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
  ```
  </details>

Don't be in a rush, take time to [read this article](http://sebastien.saunier.me/blog/2015/05/10/github-public-key-authentication.html) to get a better
understanding of what those keys are used for.


## GitHub CLI

CLI is the acronym of [Command-line Interface](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command-line_interface).

In this section, we will install [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/) to perform useful actions with GitHub data directly from the terminal.

It should already be installed on your laptop from the previous commands. First you need to **login**, copy the following line (**do not** edit it!) and paste it in your terminal, then press the `ENTER` key:

```bash
gh auth login -s 'user:email' -w
```

You will get the following output:

```bash
! First copy your one-time code: 0EF9-D015
- Press Enter to open github.com in your browser...
```

Select and copy the code (`0EF9-D015` in the example), then press `ENTER`. Your browser will open and ask you to authorize GitHub CLI to use your GitHub account. Accept and wait a bit.

Come back to the terminal, press `ENTER` again, and that's it.

To check that you are properly connected, type:

```bash
gh auth status
```

:white_check_mark: If you get `Logged in to github.com as <YOUR USERNAME> `, then all good :+1:

:x: If not, **contact a teacher**.

Then run the following configuration line:

```bash
gh config set git_protocol ssh
```


## Dotfiles (Standard configuration)

Hackers love to refine and polish their shell and tools.

We'll start with a great default configuration provided by Le Wagon: [`lewagon/dotfiles`](https://github.com/lewagon/dotfiles).

As your configuration is personal, you need your **own** repository storing it. So you will **fork** Le Wagon repository.

Forking means that you will create a new repo in your own GitHub account `$GITHUB_USERNAME/dotfiles`, identical to the original one Le Wagon one that you will be able to modify at will.

Open your terminal and run the following command:

```bash
export GITHUB_USERNAME=`gh api user | jq -r '.login'`
echo $GITHUB_USERNAME
```

:white_check_mark: You should see your GitHub username printed.

:x: If not, **stop here** and ask for help. There may be a problem with the previous step (`gh auth`).

Time to fork the repo and clone it on your laptop:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/code/$GITHUB_USERNAME && cd $_
gh repo fork lewagon/dotfiles --clone
```

Run the `dotfiles` installer.

```bash
cd ~/code/$GITHUB_USERNAME/dotfiles
git checkout --track upstream/vscode # TODO(dmilon): remove this line before merging to master
zsh install.sh
```

Check the emails registered with your GitHub Account. You'll need to pick one at the next step:

```bash
gh api user/emails | jq -r '.[].email'
```

Run the git installer:

```bash
cd ~/code/$GITHUB_USERNAME/dotfiles && zsh git_setup.sh
```

:point_up: This will **prompt** you for your name (`FirstName LastName`) and your email.

:warning: You **need** to put one of the email listed above thanks to the previous `gh api ...` command. If you don't do that, Kitt won't be able to track your progress.

Please now **quit** all your opened terminal windows.


## rbenv

Let's install [`rbenv`](https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv), a software to install and manage `ruby` environments.

First, we need to clean up any previous Ruby installation you might have:

```bash
rvm implode && sudo rm -rf ~/.rvm
# If you got "zsh: command not found: rvm", carry on.
# It means `rvm` is not on your computer, that's what we want!
rm -rf ~/.rbenv
```

Then in the terminal, run:

```bash
sudo apt install -y build-essential tklib zlib1g-dev libssl-dev libffi-dev libxml2 libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev libreadline-dev
```

```bash
git clone https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv.git ~/.rbenv
```

```bash
git clone https://github.com/rbenv/ruby-build.git ~/.rbenv/plugins/ruby-build
```

**Close your terminal and open it again**

If you get a warning, just **ignore** it from now (Ruby is not installed yet).


## Ruby

### Installation

Now, you are ready to install the latest ruby version and set it as the default version.

Run this command, it will **take a while (5-10 minutes)**

```bash
rbenv install 2.7.3
```

Once the ruby installation is done, run this command to tell the system
to use the 2.7.3 version by default.

```bash
rbenv global 2.7.3
```

Then **restart** your Terminal again (close it and reopen it).

```bash
ruby -v
```

You should see something starting with `ruby 2.7.3p`. If not, ask a teacher.

### Installing some gems

<details>
  <summary>If you are in <bold>China</bold></summary>

  :warning: If you are in China, you should update the way we'll install gem with the following commands.

```bash
# China only!
gem sources --remove https://rubygems.org/
gem sources -a https://gems.ruby-china.com/
gem sources -l
# *** CURRENT SOURCES ***
# https://gems.ruby-china.com/
# Ruby-china.com must be in the list now
```
</details>

All, please run the following line:

```bash
gem install rake bundler rspec rubocop rubocop-performance pry pry-byebug colored http
```

:white_check_mark: If you get `xx gems installed`, then all good :+1:

:x: If you encounter the following error:

```bash
ERROR: While executing gem ... (TypeError)
incompatible marshal file format (can't be read)
format version 4.8 required; 60.33 given
```

Run the following command:
```bash
rm -rf ~/.gemrc
```

Rerun the command to install the gems.

**Never** install a gem with `sudo gem install`! Even if you stumble upon a Stackoverflow answer (or the Terminal) telling you to do so.


## Node.js

[Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) is a JavaScript runtime to execute JavaScript code in the terminal. Let's install it with [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm), a version manager for Node.js.

In a terminal, execute the following command:

```bash
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.37.0/install.sh | zsh
```

Restart your terminal and run the following:

```bash
nvm -v
```

You should see a version. If not, ask a teacher.

Now let's install node:

```bash
nvm install 14.15
```

When the command returns, run

```bash
node -v
```

You should see `v14.15`. If not, ask a teacher.


## yarn

[`yarn`](https://yarnpkg.com/) is a package manager to install JavaScript libraries. Let's install it:

In a terminal, run the following command:

```bash
npm install --global yarn
```

Restart your terminal and run the following command:

```bash
yarn -v
```

You should see a version. If not, ask a teacher.


## PostgreSQL

In a few weeks, we'll talk about SQL and Databases and you'll need something called PostgreSQL,
an open-source robust and production-ready database. Let's install it now.

```
sudo apt install -y postgresql postgresql-contrib libpq-dev build-essential
sudo -u postgres psql --command "CREATE ROLE `whoami` LOGIN createdb;"
```


## Ubuntu inotify

Ubuntu is always tracking changes in your folders and to do this it uses inotify.
By default the Ubuntu limit is set to 8192 files monitored.

As programming involves a lot of files, we need to raise this limit.
In your terminal run:

```bash
echo fs.inotify.max_user_watches=524288 | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf && sudo sysctl -p
```


## Extra

### Install video codec H264

On our pedagogical platform (Kitt, you'll soon discover it!), we have some videos. By default Firefox on Linux cannot play them as they use an unsupported codec (H264). To get those videos working for you, you need to run this:

```bash
sudo apt install libavcodec-extra -y
```

### Install useful terminal tools

`tree` is a nice tool to visualize a directory tree inside the terminal:

`ncdu` is a text-based interface disk utility.

`htop` is an interactive process viewer.

`tig` is a text-mode interface for `git`.

```bash
sudo apt install tree ncdu htop tig
```


## Check-up

Let's check if you successfully installed everything.

Quit all opened Terminal, open a new one and run the following commands:

<!-- TODO(dmilon): update branch before merging with master -->
```bash
curl -Ls https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lewagon/setup/vscode/check.rb > _.rb && ruby _.rb && rm _.rb || rm _.rb
```

:check_mark: If you get a green `Awesome! Your laptop is now ready!`, then you're good :+1:

:x: If not, **contact a teacher**.


## Kitt

:warning: If you have received an email from Le Wagon inviting you to sign up on Kitt (our learning platform), you can safely skip this step. Instead, please follow the instructions in the email you received if you haven't done so already.

If you are unsure about what to do, you can follow [this link](https://kitt.lewagon.com/). If you are already logged in, you can safely skip this section. If you are not logged in, click on `Enter Kitt as a Student`. If you manage to login, you can safely skip this step. Otherwise ask a teacher whether you should have received an email or follow the instructions below.

Register as a Wagon alumni by going to [kitt.lewagon.com/onboarding](http://kitt.lewagon.com/onboarding). Select your batch, sign in with GitHub and enter all your information.

Your teacher will then validate that you are indeed part of the batch. You can ask him to do it as soon as you completed the registration form.

Once the teacher has approved your profile, go to your email inbox. You should have 2 emails:

- One from Slack, inviting you to the Le Wagon Alumni slack community (where you'll chat with your buddies and all the previous alumni). Click on **Join** and fill the information.
- One from GitHub, inviting you to `lewagon` team. **Accept it** otherwise you won't be able to access the lecture slides.


## Slack

### Installation

[Download the Slack app](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/212924728-Slack-for-Linux-beta-) and install it.


### Settings

Launch the app and sign in to `lewagon-alumni` organization.

Make sure you **upload a profile picture** :point_down:

![How to upload a profile picture on Slack](images/slack_profile_picture.gif)

The idea is that you'll have Slack open all day, so that you can share useful links / ask for help / decide where to go to lunch / etc.

To ensure that everything is working fine for video calls, let's test your camera and microphone:
- Open the Slack app
- In any channel message bar type `/call --test` and press `ENTER`
- Click on the "Start test" green button

![Check microphone and webcam with Slack](images/slack_call_test.png)

:white_check_mark: When the test is finished, you should see green "Succeed" messages at least for your microphone and camera. :+1:

:x: If not, **contact a teacher**.

You can also install Slack app on your phone and sign in `lewagon-alumni`!


## Pin apps to your dock

You are going to use most of the apps you've installed today really often. So let's pin them to your dock so that they are just one click away!

To pin an app to your dock, launch the app, right-click on the icon in the dock to bring up the context menu and choose "Add to Favorites".

![How to pin an app to the dock in Ubuntu](images/ubuntu_dock.png)

You must pin:
- Your terminal
- Your file explorer
- VS Code
- Your Internet browser
- Slack
- Zoom


## Setup completed!

Your laptop is now all set for [Le Wagon Web Development course](https://www.lewagon.com/web-development-course/full-time) :muscle: :clap:

Enjoy the bootcamp, you will nail it :rocket:

Commit message:

replace :white_check_mark: with :heavy_check_mark:

ubuntu.md, after:

# Setup instructions

You will find below the instructions to set up you computer for [Le Wagon Web Development course](https://www.lewagon.com/web-development-course/full-time)

Please **read them carefully and execute all commands in the following order**. If you get stuck, don't hesitate to ask a teacher for help :raising_hand:

Let's start :rocket:


## Zoom

To be able to interact when we are not in the same physical room, we will be using [Zoom](https://zoom.us/), a video conferencing tool.

:warning: If you already have Zoom installed, please make sure that the version is at least **5.6**.

To create an account and install the app:
- Go to [https://zoom.us/download](https://zoom.us/download)
- Under **Zoom Client** click the **Download** button
- Open the file you have just downloaded to install the app
- Open the Zoom app
- If you already have a Zoom account, sign in using your credentials
- If not, click on the **Sign Up Free** link:

![Sign Up Free to Zoom](images/zoom_sign_up_free.png)

You will be redirected to Zoom's website to complete a form.

When it's done, go back to the Zoom app and sign in using your credentials.

You should then see a screen like this:

![Zoom Home Screen](images/zoom_home_screen.png)

You can now close the Zoom app.


## GitHub account

Have you signed up to GitHub? If not, [do it right away](https://github.com/join).

:point_right: **[Upload a picture](https://github.com/settings/profile)** and put your name correctly on your GitHub account. This is important as we'll use an internal dashboard with your avatars. Please do this **now**, before you continue with this guide.

![GitHub picture](images/github_picture.png)


## Git

### Installation

[`git`](https://git-scm.com/) is a command line software used for version control.

To install `git`:
- Open a terminal
- Copy and paste the following commands:

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y git
````

:warning: When you you type your password, nothing will show up on the screen, **that's normal**. This is a security feature to mask not only your password as a whole but also its length. Just type your password and when you're done, press `ENTER`.

### GitHub CLI

Let's now install [GitHub official CLI](https://cli.github.com) (Command Line Interface). It's a software used to interact with your GitHub account via the command line.

In you terminal, copy-paste the following commands and type in your password if asked:

```bash
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-key C99B11DEB97541F0
sudo apt-add-repository https://cli.github.com/packages
sudo apt update
```

Then copy-paste the following command:

```bash
sudo apt install -y gh

```

To check that `gh` has been successfully installed on your machine, you can run:

```bash
gh --version
```

:heavy_check_mark: If you see `gh version X.Y.Z (YYYY-MM-DD)`, you're good to go :+1:

:x: Otherwise, please **contact a teacher**


## Visual Studio Code

### Installation

Let's install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) text editor.

Copy (`CTRL` + `C`) the commands below then paste them in your terminal (`CTRL` + `SHIFT` + `v`):

```bash
wget -q https://packages.microsoft.com/keys/microsoft.asc -O- | sudo apt-key add -
sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://packages.microsoft.com/repos/vscode stable main"
sudo apt update
sudo apt install code
```

:point_up: This command will ask for your password with: `[sudo] password for <username>:`.

Don't panick! Calmly type your password key by key. You won't have a visual feedback (like little `*`), that's **perfectly normal**, keep on typing. When you're done, hit `Enter` :muscle:.

### Launching from the terminal

Now let's try to launch your VS Code from **the terminal**:

```bash
code
```

You can move forward!


## VS Code Extensions

### Installation

Let's install some useful extensions to VS Code.

- Open your terminal
- Copy the commands below
- Paste it in your terminal

```bash
code --install-extension ms-vscode.sublime-keybindings
code --install-extension rebornix.ruby
code --install-extension dbaeumer.vscode-eslint
code --install-extension MS-vsliveshare.vsliveshare
code --install-extension emmanuelbeziat.vscode-great-icons
```

Here is a list of the extensions you are installing:
- [Sublime Text Keymap and Settings Importer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.sublime-keybindings)
- [Ruby](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rebornix.Ruby)
- [ESLint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint)
- [Live Share](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MS-vsliveshare.vsliveshare)
- [VSCode Great Icons](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=emmanuelbeziat.vscode-great-icons)

### Live Share configuration

[Visual Studio Live Share](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/services/live-share/) is a VS Code extension which allows you to share the code in your text editor for debugging and pair-programming: let's set it up!

Launch VS Code from your terminal by typing `code` and pressing `ENTER`.

Click on the little arrow at the bottom of the left bar :point_down:

![VS Code Live Share](images/vscode_live_share.png)

- Click on the "Share" button, then on "GitHub (Sign in using GitHub account)".
- A popup appears asking you to sign in with GitHub: click on "Allow".
- You are redirected to a GitHub page in you browser asking you to authorize Visual Studio Code: click on "Continue" then "Authorize github".
- VS Code may display additional pop-ups: close them by clicking "OK".

That's it, you're good to go!


## Oh-my-zsh - Fancy your terminal

We will use the shell named `zsh` instead of `bash`, the default one.

In a terminal execute the following command and type in your password if asked:

```bash
sudo apt install -y zsh curl vim imagemagick jq
```

Then copy-paste the following command:

```bash
sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh/master/tools/install.sh)"

```

When asked "Do you want to change your default shell to zsh?", press `Y`

At the end your terminal should look like this:

![Ubuntu terminal with OhMyZsh](images/oh_my_zsh.png)

:heavy_check_mark: If it does, you're good to go :+1:

:x: Otherwise, please **ask for a teacher**


## SSH Key

### Generation

We need to generate SSH keys which are going to be used by GitHub to authenticate you. You can think of it as a way to log in, but different from the well known username/password couple.

If you already generated keys that you already use with other services, you can skip this step.

Open a terminal and copy-paste this command, replacing the email with **yours** (the same one you used to create your GitHub account).

It will prompt for information. Just press enter until it asks for a **passphrase**.

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.ssh && ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -o -a 100 -f ~/.ssh/id_ed25519 -C "TYPE_YOUR_EMAIL@HERE.com"
```

:warning: When asked for a passphrase, put something you want and that you'll remember. It's a password to protect your private key stored on your hard drive.

:warning: When you you type your passphrase, nothing will show up on the screen, **that's normal**. This is a security feature to mask not only your passphrase as a whole but also its length. Just type your passphrase and when you're done, press `ENTER`.

### Giving your public key to GitHub

Now, you will give your **public** key to GitHub.

In your terminal copy-paste the following command:

```bash
cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub
```

It will prompt on the screen the content of the `id_ed25519.pub` file.

- Copy that text from `ssh` to the end of your email address
- Go to [github.com/settings/ssh](https://github.com/settings/keys)
- Click on the green button `New SSH key`
- Fill in the Title with your computer name (`Macbook Pro` for instance)
- Paste the **key**
- Finish by clicking on the **Add SSH key** green button.

To check that this step is completed, in the terminal run this.

```bash
ssh -T git@github.com
```

:warning: You will be prompted a warning, type `yes` then `ENTER`.

This is the expected result:

```
# Hi --------! You've successfully authenticated, but GitHub does not provide shell access
```

:heavy_check_mark: If you got this message, the keys were added successfully :+1:

:x: If you encountered an error, you will have to try again. Do not hesitate to **contact a teacher**.

<details>
  <summary>If <code>ssh -T git@github.com</code> does not work</summary>

  Try running this command before trying again:

  ```bash
  ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
  ```
  </details>

Don't be in a rush, take time to [read this article](http://sebastien.saunier.me/blog/2015/05/10/github-public-key-authentication.html) to get a better
understanding of what those keys are used for.


## GitHub CLI

CLI is the acronym of [Command-line Interface](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command-line_interface).

In this section, we will install [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/) to perform useful actions with GitHub data directly from the terminal.

It should already be installed on your laptop from the previous commands. First you need to **login**, copy the following line (**do not** edit it!) and paste it in your terminal, then press the `ENTER` key:

```bash
gh auth login -s 'user:email' -w
```

You will get the following output:

```bash
! First copy your one-time code: 0EF9-D015
- Press Enter to open github.com in your browser...
```

Select and copy the code (`0EF9-D015` in the example), then press `ENTER`. Your browser will open and ask you to authorize GitHub CLI to use your GitHub account. Accept and wait a bit.

Come back to the terminal, press `ENTER` again, and that's it.

To check that you are properly connected, type:

```bash
gh auth status
```

:heavy_check_mark: If you get `Logged in to github.com as <YOUR USERNAME> `, then all good :+1:

:x: If not, **contact a teacher**.

Then run the following configuration line:

```bash
gh config set git_protocol ssh
```


## Dotfiles (Standard configuration)

Hackers love to refine and polish their shell and tools.

We'll start with a great default configuration provided by Le Wagon: [`lewagon/dotfiles`](https://github.com/lewagon/dotfiles).

As your configuration is personal, you need your **own** repository storing it. So you will **fork** Le Wagon repository.

Forking means that you will create a new repo in your own GitHub account `$GITHUB_USERNAME/dotfiles`, identical to the original one Le Wagon one that you will be able to modify at will.

Open your terminal and run the following command:

```bash
export GITHUB_USERNAME=`gh api user | jq -r '.login'`
echo $GITHUB_USERNAME
```

:heavy_check_mark: You should see your GitHub username printed.

:x: If not, **stop here** and ask for help. There may be a problem with the previous step (`gh auth`).

Time to fork the repo and clone it on your laptop:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/code/$GITHUB_USERNAME && cd $_
gh repo fork lewagon/dotfiles --clone
```

Run the `dotfiles` installer.

```bash
cd ~/code/$GITHUB_USERNAME/dotfiles
git checkout --track upstream/vscode # TODO(dmilon): remove this line before merging to master
zsh install.sh
```

Check the emails registered with your GitHub Account. You'll need to pick one at the next step:

```bash
gh api user/emails | jq -r '.[].email'
```

Run the git installer:

```bash
cd ~/code/$GITHUB_USERNAME/dotfiles && zsh git_setup.sh
```

:point_up: This will **prompt** you for your name (`FirstName LastName`) and your email.

:warning: You **need** to put one of the email listed above thanks to the previous `gh api ...` command. If you don't do that, Kitt won't be able to track your progress.

Please now **quit** all your opened terminal windows.


## rbenv

Let's install [`rbenv`](https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv), a software to install and manage `ruby` environments.

First, we need to clean up any previous Ruby installation you might have:

```bash
rvm implode && sudo rm -rf ~/.rvm
# If you got "zsh: command not found: rvm", carry on.
# It means `rvm` is not on your computer, that's what we want!
rm -rf ~/.rbenv
```

Then in the terminal, run:

```bash
sudo apt install -y build-essential tklib zlib1g-dev libssl-dev libffi-dev libxml2 libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev libreadline-dev
```

```bash
git clone https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv.git ~/.rbenv
```

```bash
git clone https://github.com/rbenv/ruby-build.git ~/.rbenv/plugins/ruby-build
```

**Close your terminal and open it again**

If you get a warning, just **ignore** it from now (Ruby is not installed yet).


## Ruby

### Installation

Now, you are ready to install the latest ruby version and set it as the default version.

Run this command, it will **take a while (5-10 minutes)**

```bash
rbenv install 2.7.3
```

Once the ruby installation is done, run this command to tell the system
to use the 2.7.3 version by default.

```bash
rbenv global 2.7.3
```

Then **restart** your Terminal again (close it and reopen it).

```bash
ruby -v
```

You should see something starting with `ruby 2.7.3p`. If not, ask a teacher.

### Installing some gems

<details>
  <summary>If you are in <bold>China</bold></summary>

  :warning: If you are in China, you should update the way we'll install gem with the following commands.

```bash
# China only!
gem sources --remove https://rubygems.org/
gem sources -a https://gems.ruby-china.com/
gem sources -l
# *** CURRENT SOURCES ***
# https://gems.ruby-china.com/
# Ruby-china.com must be in the list now
```
</details>

All, please run the following line:

```bash
gem install rake bundler rspec rubocop rubocop-performance pry pry-byebug colored http
```

:heavy_check_mark: If you get `xx gems installed`, then all good :+1:

:x: If you encounter the following error:

```bash
ERROR: While executing gem ... (TypeError)
incompatible marshal file format (can't be read)
format version 4.8 required; 60.33 given
```

Run the following command:
```bash
rm -rf ~/.gemrc
```

Rerun the command to install the gems.

**Never** install a gem with `sudo gem install`! Even if you stumble upon a Stackoverflow answer (or the Terminal) telling you to do so.


## Node.js

[Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) is a JavaScript runtime to execute JavaScript code in the terminal. Let's install it with [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm), a version manager for Node.js.

In a terminal, execute the following command:

```bash
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.37.0/install.sh | zsh
```

Restart your terminal and run the following:

```bash
nvm -v
```

You should see a version. If not, ask a teacher.

Now let's install node:

```bash
nvm install 14.15
```

When the command returns, run

```bash
node -v
```

You should see `v14.15`. If not, ask a teacher.


## yarn

[`yarn`](https://yarnpkg.com/) is a package manager to install JavaScript libraries. Let's install it:

In a terminal, run the following command:

```bash
npm install --global yarn
```

Restart your terminal and run the following command:

```bash
yarn -v
```

You should see a version. If not, ask a teacher.


## PostgreSQL

In a few weeks, we'll talk about SQL and Databases and you'll need something called PostgreSQL,
an open-source robust and production-ready database. Let's install it now.

```
sudo apt install -y postgresql postgresql-contrib libpq-dev build-essential
sudo -u postgres psql --command "CREATE ROLE `whoami` LOGIN createdb;"
```


## Ubuntu inotify

Ubuntu is always tracking changes in your folders and to do this it uses inotify.
By default the Ubuntu limit is set to 8192 files monitored.

As programming involves a lot of files, we need to raise this limit.
In your terminal run:

```bash
echo fs.inotify.max_user_watches=524288 | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf && sudo sysctl -p
```


## Extra

### Install video codec H264

On our pedagogical platform (Kitt, you'll soon discover it!), we have some videos. By default Firefox on Linux cannot play them as they use an unsupported codec (H264). To get those videos working for you, you need to run this:

```bash
sudo apt install libavcodec-extra -y
```

### Install useful terminal tools

`tree` is a nice tool to visualize a directory tree inside the terminal:

`ncdu` is a text-based interface disk utility.

`htop` is an interactive process viewer.

`tig` is a text-mode interface for `git`.

```bash
sudo apt install tree ncdu htop tig
```


## Check-up

Let's check if you successfully installed everything.

Quit all opened Terminal, open a new one and run the following commands:

<!-- TODO(dmilon): update branch before merging with master -->
```bash
curl -Ls https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lewagon/setup/vscode/check.rb > _.rb && ruby _.rb && rm _.rb || rm _.rb
```

:check_mark: If you get a green `Awesome! Your laptop is now ready!`, then you're good :+1:

:x: If not, **contact a teacher**.


## Kitt

:warning: If you have received an email from Le Wagon inviting you to sign up on Kitt (our learning platform), you can safely skip this step. Instead, please follow the instructions in the email you received if you haven't done so already.

If you are unsure about what to do, you can follow [this link](https://kitt.lewagon.com/). If you are already logged in, you can safely skip this section. If you are not logged in, click on `Enter Kitt as a Student`. If you manage to login, you can safely skip this step. Otherwise ask a teacher whether you should have received an email or follow the instructions below.

Register as a Wagon alumni by going to [kitt.lewagon.com/onboarding](http://kitt.lewagon.com/onboarding). Select your batch, sign in with GitHub and enter all your information.

Your teacher will then validate that you are indeed part of the batch. You can ask him to do it as soon as you completed the registration form.

Once the teacher has approved your profile, go to your email inbox. You should have 2 emails:

- One from Slack, inviting you to the Le Wagon Alumni slack community (where you'll chat with your buddies and all the previous alumni). Click on **Join** and fill the information.
- One from GitHub, inviting you to `lewagon` team. **Accept it** otherwise you won't be able to access the lecture slides.


## Slack

### Installation

[Download the Slack app](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/212924728-Slack-for-Linux-beta-) and install it.


### Settings

Launch the app and sign in to `lewagon-alumni` organization.

Make sure you **upload a profile picture** :point_down:

![How to upload a profile picture on Slack](images/slack_profile_picture.gif)

The idea is that you'll have Slack open all day, so that you can share useful links / ask for help / decide where to go to lunch / etc.

To ensure that everything is working fine for video calls, let's test your camera and microphone:
- Open the Slack app
- In any channel message bar type `/call --test` and press `ENTER`
- Click on the "Start test" green button

![Check microphone and webcam with Slack](images/slack_call_test.png)

:heavy_check_mark: When the test is finished, you should see green "Succeed" messages at least for your microphone and camera. :+1:

:x: If not, **contact a teacher**.

You can also install Slack app on your phone and sign in `lewagon-alumni`!


## Pin apps to your dock

You are going to use most of the apps you've installed today really often. So let's pin them to your dock so that they are just one click away!

To pin an app to your dock, launch the app, right-click on the icon in the dock to bring up the context menu and choose "Add to Favorites".

![How to pin an app to the dock in Ubuntu](images/ubuntu_dock.png)

You must pin:
- Your terminal
- Your file explorer
- VS Code
- Your Internet browser
- Slack
- Zoom


## Setup completed!

Your laptop is now all set for [Le Wagon Web Development course](https://www.lewagon.com/web-development-course/full-time) :muscle: :clap:

Enjoy the bootcamp, you will nail it :rocket:
