WINDOWS_LINUX_SUBSYSTEM2.md, before:

# Setup your machine!

Welcome to this setup where we are going to install the tools required to make your machine a true developer environment :muscle:



## Prerequisites

Before we start it is important you meet the following prerequisites to ensure the smooth running of the setup.
Take your time to read through everything and do not hesitate to ask for help if you feel stuck.
Ready? Let's go :sunglasses:



### Latest version of Windows

For this setup, you need to be running on the latest version of Windows.

This means that you need to be on Windows 10 with all the latest updates installed.

You can check your software version by clicking on **Start>Settings>System>About**, look where it says *edition*. If you see something that starts with "Windows 10..." you're good to go :muscle:.

Not the case? Don't panic :scream: You can always install windows 10 from [microsoft]( https://www.microsoft.com/en-gb/windows/get-windows-10) and click on *Check for Updates* then follow the instructions on screen. Come back to this setup when Windows 10 is installed.

Once you are sure that you're running Windows 10, you will need to check that your machine is running with all the latest updates. For this click on **Start>Settings>Updates & Security>Windows Update** then click on **Check updates**. If you have updates available please install them and repeat until it says that you are up to date :star:.



### The insider program

As a soon-to-be-developer, you always want to get the beta version of everything :nerd_face:.

This also applies to Windows, so we are going to sign up to their beta program, the **Insider program** .

Go to **Start>Settings>Updates & Security>Insider Program**

Click on **Get Started**. It will ask you to **Link an account**; follow the instructions on screen. You will be prompted (code-speak for being asked) to choose your insider parameters, choose the second setting, the **fast** one :zap:. Then confirm and restart your computer when you are prompted to do so.

After your computer has restarted you can double-check that you are now part of the insider program by clicking on **Start>Settings>Updates & Security>Insider Program**, you should then be prompted with the insider parameter that you chose earlier (**fast**).

By joining the insider program you have unlocked more content and updates - which we also want to install. Go to **Start>Settings>Updates & Security>Windows Update**, you should see new updates available.
:warning: These updates can be very long (more than 30 minutes) so make sure your computer has battery and that you won't have to close it during the installation :warning:

Start the updates and go grab a coffee :coffee: or tea :tea:.

After your computer has restarted, go to **Start>Settings>System>About**, this time check the *Version*, if it says at least 2004, you are good to go :sunglasses:.  

### Enable virtualization

Last requirement and the rest will be a breeze, we promise :crossed_fingers:. We need to enable the virtualization tool in the BIOS of your computer. 

You can go [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BIOS) for more information about it, in short it is the program that is run by the motherboard in your computer when you start it. One issue is that the way to access that BIOS is different depending on the motherboard manufacturer. And because it would be too easy, each manufacturer calls the virtualization tool a different way as well :sweat_smile:.


Let's retrieve your motherboard model :muscle:

Click on **Start** and type **System Information** and open it.

Locate the *System Model* line, the value on the right is your motherboard model.

Now because everything is dependant of your motherboard, we will have to do a google search on how to enable virtualization with this model. 

:warning: We invite you to contact a teacher to do that operation together as it might be a bit scary. that way you can have a WhatsApp call / Facetime (choose the tool of your choice so the teacher can see your screen :man_mechanic:​) :warning:

If we take my example (sorry it is in French) :

![motherboard.png](images/wsl2_motherboard.jpg)

So I googled "*mpg x570 plus enable virtualization*" and the first video in the results taught me how to do it. It is part of a developer life to search for information and apply them this way :nerd_face:.

Follow the instructions you found to enable virtualization and come back here, we will be waiting :smile:.  


# Setup instructions

The following instructions will help you to get ready for [Le Wagon](http://www.lewagon.org) fullstack bootcamp:

- Grab a text editor, where you'll spend your day and nights
- Install a package manager
- Pimp your Terminal
- Setup git and GitHub
- Install Ruby


## Windows Subsystem for Linux

WSL is the development environment you are going to use, you can learn more about WSL [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/faq).

Click on **Start** and type **powershell**. Right click on **Windows Powershell (x86)** then click on **Run as administrator**. A blue box will appear, copy and paste the following command into that blue box:

```powershellEnable-WindowsOptionalFeature -Online -FeatureName Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux```



Press **enter** to run the command. You will be prompted to restart your computer, type **n** and **enter** to prevent your computer to restart.

Run the following command:

```dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux /all /norestart ```

Then this one:

```dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:VirtualMachinePlatform /all /norestart```

You can now restart your computer.

Once your computer has restarted, click on **Start** and type **Microsoft Store**. Launch it. In the search bar, type **Ubuntu**. Click on the first result **Ubuntu**, not **Ubuntu 18.04 LTS**. Click on **Install**.

:warning: There is no progress bar for this installation, when it is done you will be prompted, in the bottom right corner, to launch it.

The first time you open WSL - it should ask you to choose a username :warning: Your username should be **one word**, **downcased** with no **special characters** :warning:
Example: 'lewagon'

It will then ask you for a new password: when you type your password, :warning: it will not appear on the screen :warning: - and there will be no familiar typing indicator even though your keystrokes are being registered.  This is a security feature to mask not only your password as a whole but also its length!

You will have to retype your password then the installation will be successful.

You can close the terminal now that WSL is installed on your machine.



### Upgrade to WSL 2

By default WSL is in its first version, **1**.
Let's upgrade it to its **version 2**.
For this, we need to update its kernel, follow this [link](https://aka.ms/wsl2kernel). Click on the suggested link to download the update package. Once it has downloaded, open the program. Click on **next** then **finish**.

We also need to make sur the its files are not compressed. Let's enable an option to let you see hidden files/folders :female_detective:. Click on **Start**; in the search bar type *folder* open the folder options. Click in the second tab **View** then under *Hidden files and folders* select **Show hidden files, folders, and drives**, click on **Apply** then **Ok** to close this window.

Open a file explorer, in the sidebar click on *This computer* >*Windows (C:)* > *Users* > *your username account* > *AppData* > *Local* > *Packages*. Here you need to locate the folder starting with **CanonicalGroupLimited.UbuntuonWindows** and open it.

Locate the **LocalState** folder and **right click** on it > **Properties** > **Advanced**

Make sure than the option **Compress content** is not checked. Click on **ok** to validate your choice. You will be prompted to know if you want to apply only to this folder or also the subfolders. Please choose only this folder. 

Click on **Start**, in the search bar type *cmd*, open the **Command Prompt**
You will see all the WSL updates installed on your machine with the command

```wsl -l -v```
(translates to wsl list version)

You should see the Ubuntu version that you installed before.

Let's upgrade it to the version 2, by running the following command

```wsl --set-version Ubuntu 2```

A message will appear telling you that the conversion is in progress and that it will take a few minutes.

When you get the message *The conversion is complete*, paste the following command in the command prompt:

```wsl -l -v``` and double-check that the version is now the version 2.

## GitHub account

Have you signed up to GitHub? If not, [do it right away](https://github.com/join).

:point_right: **[Upload a picture](https://github.com/settings/profile)** and put your name correctly on your GitHub account. This is important as we'll use an internal dashboard with your avatars. Please do it **now**.

Commit message:

add install windows terminal preview

WINDOWS_LINUX_SUBSYSTEM2.md, after:

# Setup your machine!

Welcome to this setup where we are going to install the tools required to make your machine a true developer environment :muscle:



## Prerequisites

Before we start it is important you meet the following prerequisites to ensure the smooth running of the setup.
Take your time to read through everything and do not hesitate to ask for help if you feel stuck.
Ready? Let's go :sunglasses:



### Latest version of Windows

For this setup, you need to be running on the latest version of Windows.

This means that you need to be on Windows 10 with all the latest updates installed.

You can check your software version by clicking on **Start>Settings>System>About**, look where it says *edition*. If you see something that starts with "Windows 10..." you're good to go :muscle:.

Not the case? Don't panic :scream: You can always install windows 10 from [microsoft]( https://www.microsoft.com/en-gb/windows/get-windows-10) and click on *Check for Updates* then follow the instructions on screen. Come back to this setup when Windows 10 is installed.

Once you are sure that you're running Windows 10, you will need to check that your machine is running with all the latest updates. For this click on **Start>Settings>Updates & Security>Windows Update** then click on **Check updates**. If you have updates available please install them and repeat until it says that you are up to date :star:.



### The insider program

As a soon-to-be-developer, you always want to get the beta version of everything :nerd_face:.

This also applies to Windows, so we are going to sign up to their beta program, the **Insider program** .

Go to **Start>Settings>Updates & Security>Insider Program**

Click on **Get Started**. It will ask you to **Link an account**; follow the instructions on screen. You will be prompted (code-speak for being asked) to choose your insider parameters, choose the second setting, the **fast** one :zap:. Then confirm and restart your computer when you are prompted to do so.

After your computer has restarted you can double-check that you are now part of the insider program by clicking on **Start>Settings>Updates & Security>Insider Program**, you should then be prompted with the insider parameter that you chose earlier (**fast**).

By joining the insider program you have unlocked more content and updates - which we also want to install. Go to **Start>Settings>Updates & Security>Windows Update**, you should see new updates available.
:warning: These updates can be very long (more than 30 minutes) so make sure your computer has battery and that you won't have to close it during the installation :warning:

Start the updates and go grab a coffee :coffee: or tea :tea:.

After your computer has restarted, go to **Start>Settings>System>About**, this time check the *Version*, if it says at least 2004, you are good to go :sunglasses:.  

### Enable virtualization

Last requirement and the rest will be a breeze, we promise :crossed_fingers:. We need to enable the virtualization tool in the BIOS of your computer. 

You can go [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BIOS) for more information about it, in short it is the program that is run by the motherboard in your computer when you start it. One issue is that the way to access that BIOS is different depending on the motherboard manufacturer. And because it would be too easy, each manufacturer calls the virtualization tool a different way as well :sweat_smile:.


Let's retrieve your motherboard model :muscle:

Click on **Start** and type **System Information** and open it.

Locate the *System Model* line, the value on the right is your motherboard model.

Now because everything is dependant of your motherboard, we will have to do a google search on how to enable virtualization with this model. 

:warning: We invite you to contact a teacher to do that operation together as it might be a bit scary. that way you can have a WhatsApp call / Facetime (choose the tool of your choice so the teacher can see your screen :man_mechanic:​) :warning:

If we take my example (sorry it is in French) :

![motherboard.png](images/wsl2_motherboard.jpg)

So I googled "*mpg x570 plus enable virtualization*" and the first video in the results taught me how to do it. It is part of a developer life to search for information and apply them this way :nerd_face:.

Follow the instructions you found to enable virtualization and come back here, we will be waiting :smile:.  


# Setup instructions

The following instructions will help you to get ready for [Le Wagon](http://www.lewagon.org) fullstack bootcamp:

- Grab a text editor, where you'll spend your day and nights
- Install a package manager
- Pimp your Terminal
- Setup git and GitHub
- Install Ruby


## Windows Subsystem for Linux

WSL is the development environment you are going to use, you can learn more about WSL [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/faq).

Click on **Start** and type **powershell**. Right click on **Windows Powershell (x86)** then click on **Run as administrator**. A blue box will appear, copy and paste the following command into that blue box:

```powershellEnable-WindowsOptionalFeature -Online -FeatureName Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux```



Press **enter** to run the command. You will be prompted to restart your computer, type **n** and **enter** to prevent your computer to restart.

Run the following command:

```dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux /all /norestart ```

Then this one:

```dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:VirtualMachinePlatform /all /norestart```

You can now restart your computer.

Once your computer has restarted, click on **Start** and type **Microsoft Store**. Launch it. In the search bar, type **Ubuntu**. Click on the first result **Ubuntu**, not **Ubuntu 18.04 LTS**. Click on **Install**.

:warning: There is no progress bar for this installation, when it is done you will be prompted, in the bottom right corner, to launch it.

The first time you open WSL - it should ask you to choose a username :warning: Your username should be **one word**, **downcased** with no **special characters** :warning:
Example: 'lewagon'

It will then ask you for a new password: when you type your password, :warning: it will not appear on the screen :warning: - and there will be no familiar typing indicator even though your keystrokes are being registered.  This is a security feature to mask not only your password as a whole but also its length!

You will have to retype your password then the installation will be successful.

You can close the terminal now that WSL is installed on your machine.



### Upgrade to WSL 2

By default WSL is in its first version, **1**.
Let's upgrade it to its **version 2**.
For this, we need to update its kernel, follow this [link](https://aka.ms/wsl2kernel). Click on the suggested link to download the update package. Once it has downloaded, open the program. Click on **next** then **finish**.

We also need to make sur the its files are not compressed. Let's enable an option to let you see hidden files/folders :female_detective:. Click on **Start**; in the search bar type *folder* open the folder options. Click in the second tab **View** then under *Hidden files and folders* select **Show hidden files, folders, and drives**, click on **Apply** then **Ok** to close this window.

Open a file explorer, in the sidebar click on *This computer* >*Windows (C:)* > *Users* > *your username account* > *AppData* > *Local* > *Packages*. Here you need to locate the folder starting with **CanonicalGroupLimited.UbuntuonWindows** and open it.

Locate the **LocalState** folder and **right click** on it > **Properties** > **Advanced**

Make sure than the option **Compress content** is not checked. Click on **ok** to validate your choice. You will be prompted to know if you want to apply only to this folder or also the subfolders. Please choose only this folder. 

Click on **Start**, in the search bar type *cmd*, open the **Command Prompt**
You will see all the WSL updates installed on your machine with the command

```wsl -l -v```
(translates to wsl list version)

You should see the Ubuntu version that you installed before.

Let's upgrade it to the version 2, by running the following command

```wsl --set-version Ubuntu 2```

A message will appear telling you that the conversion is in progress and that it will take a few minutes.

When you get the message *The conversion is complete*, paste the following command in the command prompt:

```wsl -l -v``` and double-check that the version is now the version 2.

## Windows Terminal



Let's install the latest terminal from Microsoft.

Click on **Start** and type **store** and open the **Microsoft Store**.

In the search bar, type **terminal**, in the result click on **Windows Terminal (Preview)**

Install it.

Click on **Start** and type **terminal**, open **Windows Terminal (Preview)**

This terminal allows you to open multiple terminal tools, including *Powershelll*, *Command Prompt* and *Ubuntu* that you have installed above :point_up_2: This terminal has tabs, locate the **down arrow** and click on it, it will show you all the terminal you can open from here, click on **Ubuntu**

Voilà, you are in your **Ubuntu Terminal** :confetti_ball: From now on every time we will refer to the terminal/console it will be this one.

## GitHub account

Have you signed up to GitHub? If not, [do it right away](https://github.com/join).

:point_right: **[Upload a picture](https://github.com/settings/profile)** and put your name correctly on your GitHub account. This is important as we'll use an internal dashboard with your avatars. Please do it **now**.
