wsl_cheatsheet.md, before:

Hello and welcome to this WSL2 Cheatsheet.

The goal is to gather here all tips and known issues about WSL2!

 - [Issues](https://github.com/lewagon/setup/blob/master/wsl_cheatsheet.md#issues)
    - [I/O error](https://github.com/lewagon/setup/blob/master/wsl_cheatsheet.md#inputoutput-error)
 - [Tips](https://github.com/lewagon/setup/blob/master/wsl_cheatsheet.md#tips)
    - [Check Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://github.com/lewagon/setup/blob/master/wsl_cheatsheet.md#check-windows-subsystem-for-linux)
    - [Switch from version 1 to version 2](https://github.com/lewagon/setup/blob/master/wsl_cheatsheet.md#switch-from-version-1-to-version-2)
    - [Access root session](https://github.com/lewagon/setup/blob/master/wsl_cheatsheet.md#access-root-session)
    - [Testing in Rails](https://github.com/lewagon/setup/blob/master/wsl_cheatsheet.md#testing-on-rails)

# Issues

## Input/Output error

This happens when the hidden `wslhost.exe` is not working. We just need to restart it!

Close all WSL2 tabs.

Open a Powershell tab and run the following command:
```bash
wsl.exe --shutdown
```
Check that your Ubuntu is properly stopped with the command
```bash
wsl -l -v
```

Open a new WSL2 Tab, problem should be fixed.


# Tips

## Check Windows Subsystem for Linux

Open a Powershell terminal.

Type the following command:
```bash
wsl -l -v
```

It will tell you the name of your WSL, it's state and version.


## Switch from version 1 to version 2

To switch a WSL from version 1 to 2, open a Powershell terminal.

Type the following command:
⚠️ The conversion's time depends on the size of your Ubuntu filesystem, it can be long and WSL will be unsuable in the meantime. ⚠️
```bash
wsl --set-version Ubuntu 2
```

You can revert to version 1:
```bash
wsl --set-version Ubuntu 1
```


## Access root session

To access the `root` session, open a Powershell terminal.

Type the following command:
```bash
wsl -d Ubuntu -u root
```

You can change the password of that `root` session by using the command:
```bash
passwd
```
You will prompted to enter a new password.

Now, from your normal session, you can switch from your session to the `root` on with:
```bash
su -
```

You will be asked for the password.

You can exit the `root` session with `Ctrl + D`.


## Testing on Rails

Testing wont work by default on WSL2. It requires ChromeDriver and Chrome binary installed. For this we will need the `root` session ( AKA The super-mega-admin-session ).

You may skip the reset of the password if you already have one for your root session.

Close all WSL2 tabs.
Open a Powershell tab and run the following command:
```bash
wsl -d Ubuntu -u root
```

You are now login in your Ubuntu as `root`.

Type the following command to change it's password:
```bash
passwd
```

You will be prompted twice for a new password.

Close this WSL2 tab.

Open a WSL2 tab, you should be logged in with **your** account. Run the following command (**line per line**):
```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y unzip xvfb libxi6 libgconf-2-4
```

We need to act as the `root` session for the next command, so let's login as root (you will be prompted for the `root` password):
```bash
su -
```
Now, let's run:
```bash
sudo curl -sS -o - https://dl-ssl.google.com/linux/linux_signing_key.pub | apt-key add
sudo echo "deb [arch=amd64]  http://dl.google.com/linux/chrome/deb/ stable main" >> /etc/apt/sources.list.d/google-chrome.list
```
Press `Ctrl+D` to quit the root session.

If you are unsure about which session you're logged in with, you can use the ```whoami``` command 💡.

Let's run the following commands to install Google Chrome binary and ChromeDriver on your WSL2:
```bash
sudo apt-get -y update
sudo apt-get -y install google-chrome-stable
wget https://chromedriver.storage.googleapis.com/2.41/chromedriver_linux64.zip
unzip chromedriver_linux64.zip
sudo mv chromedriver /usr/bin/chromedriver
sudo chown your-session-here:your-session-here /usr/bin/chromedriver
sudo chmod +x /usr/bin/chromedriver
```
⚠️ Replace **your-session-here** by the result of the command ```whoami```.
My result is ```barangerbenjamin:barangerbenjamin```. ⚠️

You can now use testing in Rails. You need to open a second tab and run:
```bash
chromedriver
```
In the other tab you can run your tests with:
```bash
rails test:system
```

Commit message:

Add Win defender rules for jup notebook

wsl_cheatsheet.md, after:

Hello and welcome to this WSL2 Cheatsheet.

The goal is to gather here all tips and known issues about WSL2!

 - [Issues](https://github.com/lewagon/setup/blob/master/wsl_cheatsheet.md#issues)
    - [I/O error](https://github.com/lewagon/setup/blob/master/wsl_cheatsheet.md#inputoutput-error)
    - [ERR_CONNECTION_REFUSED](https://github.com/lewagon/setup/blob/master/wsl_cheatsheet.md#err_conection_refused)
 - [Tips](https://github.com/lewagon/setup/blob/master/wsl_cheatsheet.md#tips)
    - [Check Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://github.com/lewagon/setup/blob/master/wsl_cheatsheet.md#check-windows-subsystem-for-linux)
    - [Switch from version 1 to version 2](https://github.com/lewagon/setup/blob/master/wsl_cheatsheet.md#switch-from-version-1-to-version-2)
    - [Access root session](https://github.com/lewagon/setup/blob/master/wsl_cheatsheet.md#access-root-session)
    - [Testing in Rails](https://github.com/lewagon/setup/blob/master/wsl_cheatsheet.md#testing-on-rails)

# Issues

## Input/Output error

This happens when the hidden `wslhost.exe` is not working. We just need to restart it!

Close all WSL2 tabs.

Open a Powershell tab and run the following command:
```bash
wsl.exe --shutdown
```
Check that your Ubuntu is properly stopped with the command
```bash
wsl -l -v
```

Open a new WSL2 Tab, problem should be fixed.

## ERR_CONNECTION_REFUSED

If you get this error trying to connected to your `rails server` or `jupyter notebook`, you need to allow the connection in Windows Defender Public rules.
Close all WSL terminal. Open a Powershell terminal and type the following command to stop all WSL processes:
```bash
wsl --shutdown Ubuntu
```

Hit **Start** and type `Windows Defender Firewall` and open it.

Click on **Advanced Settings**

Right click on **Inboud Rules** and select **New Rule...**. Under **Rule Type** leave `Program` selected and hit **Next**.

For the program, Select `The program path:` and paste this path: `%SystemRoot%\System32\wsl.exe`. Click on **Next**.

For the Action section, make sure `Allow the connection` is selected and hit **Next**.

For the Profile section, make sure the 3 options are selected and click on **Next**. 

Finally you will be asked to chose a name for this new rule, go with `WSL - Inbound`.

Repeat the whole process by creating a **Outbound Rule** with the same settings, except for the name: `WSL - Outbound`.


# Tips

## Check Windows Subsystem for Linux

Open a Powershell terminal.

Type the following command:
```bash
wsl -l -v
```

It will tell you the name of your WSL, it's state and version.


## Switch from version 1 to version 2

To switch a WSL from version 1 to 2, open a Powershell terminal.

Type the following command:
⚠️ The conversion's time depends on the size of your Ubuntu filesystem, it can be long and WSL will be unsuable in the meantime. ⚠️
```bash
wsl --set-version Ubuntu 2
```

You can revert to version 1:
```bash
wsl --set-version Ubuntu 1
```


## Access root session

To access the `root` session, open a Powershell terminal.

Type the following command:
```bash
wsl -d Ubuntu -u root
```

You can change the password of that `root` session by using the command:
```bash
passwd
```
You will prompted to enter a new password.

Now, from your normal session, you can switch from your session to the `root` on with:
```bash
su -
```

You will be asked for the password.

You can exit the `root` session with `Ctrl + D`.


## Testing on Rails

Testing wont work by default on WSL2. It requires ChromeDriver and Chrome binary installed. For this we will need the `root` session ( AKA The super-mega-admin-session ).

You may skip the reset of the password if you already have one for your root session.

Close all WSL2 tabs.
Open a Powershell tab and run the following command:
```bash
wsl -d Ubuntu -u root
```

You are now login in your Ubuntu as `root`.

Type the following command to change it's password:
```bash
passwd
```

You will be prompted twice for a new password.

Close this WSL2 tab.

Open a WSL2 tab, you should be logged in with **your** account. Run the following command (**line per line**):
```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y unzip xvfb libxi6 libgconf-2-4
```

We need to act as the `root` session for the next command, so let's login as root (you will be prompted for the `root` password):
```bash
su -
```
Now, let's run:
```bash
sudo curl -sS -o - https://dl-ssl.google.com/linux/linux_signing_key.pub | apt-key add
sudo echo "deb [arch=amd64]  http://dl.google.com/linux/chrome/deb/ stable main" >> /etc/apt/sources.list.d/google-chrome.list
```
Press `Ctrl+D` to quit the root session.

If you are unsure about which session you're logged in with, you can use the ```whoami``` command 💡.

Let's run the following commands to install Google Chrome binary and ChromeDriver on your WSL2:
```bash
sudo apt-get -y update
sudo apt-get -y install google-chrome-stable
wget https://chromedriver.storage.googleapis.com/2.41/chromedriver_linux64.zip
unzip chromedriver_linux64.zip
sudo mv chromedriver /usr/bin/chromedriver
sudo chown your-session-here:your-session-here /usr/bin/chromedriver
sudo chmod +x /usr/bin/chromedriver
```
⚠️ Replace **your-session-here** by the result of the command ```whoami```.
My result is ```barangerbenjamin:barangerbenjamin```. ⚠️

You can now use testing in Rails. You need to open a second tab and run:
```bash
chromedriver
```
In the other tab you can run your tests with:
```bash
rails test:system
```
