_partials/cli_tools.md, before:

## Command line tools

### Zsh & Git

Instead of using the default `bash` [shell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shell_(computing)), we will use `zsh`.

We will also use [`git`](https://git-scm.com/), a command line software used for version control.

Let's install them, along with other useful tools:
- Open an **Ubuntu terminal**
- Copy and paste the following commands:

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y curl git imagemagick jq unzip vim zsh
```

These commands will ask for your password: type it in.

:warning: When you type your password, nothing will show up on the screen, **that's normal**. This is a security feature to mask not only your password as a whole but also its length. Just type in your password and when you're done, press `Enter`.

### GitHub CLI installation

Let's now install [GitHub official CLI](https://cli.github.com) (Command Line Interface). It's a software used to interact with your GitHub account via the command line.

In your terminal, copy-paste the following commands and type in your password if asked:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://cli.github.com/packages/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg | sudo dd of=/usr/share/keyrings/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg
echo "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg] https://cli.github.com/packages stable main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/github-cli.list > /dev/null
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y gh
```

To check that `gh` has been successfully installed on your machine, you can run:

```bash
gh --version
```

:heavy_check_mark: If you see `gh version X.Y.Z (YYYY-MM-DD)`, you're good to go :+1:

:x: Otherwise, please **contact a teacher**

Commit message:

2022 Q3 setup feedback (#401)
* Update macos.md

* improve wording

* update wording

* setup guides generated

* add m1 homebrew next steps instructions

* add instruction to uninstall gitsome

* setup guides generated

Co-authored-by: rubenvoss <105738004+rubenvoss@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: github-actions <github-actions@github.com>

_partials/cli_tools.md, after:

## Command line tools

### Zsh & Git

Instead of using the default `bash` [shell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shell_(computing)), we will use `zsh`.

We will also use [`git`](https://git-scm.com/), a command line software used for version control.

Let's install them, along with other useful tools:
- Open an **Ubuntu terminal**
- Copy and paste the following commands:

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y curl git imagemagick jq unzip vim zsh
```

These commands will ask for your password: type it in.

:warning: When you type your password, nothing will show up on the screen, **that's normal**. This is a security feature to mask not only your password as a whole but also its length. Just type in your password and when you're done, press `Enter`.

### GitHub CLI installation

Let's now install [GitHub official CLI](https://cli.github.com) (Command Line Interface). It's a software used to interact with your GitHub account via the command line.

In your terminal, copy-paste the following commands and type in your password if asked:

```bash
sudo apt remove -y gitsome # gh command can conflict with gitsome if already installed
curl -fsSL https://cli.github.com/packages/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg | sudo dd of=/usr/share/keyrings/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg
echo "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg] https://cli.github.com/packages stable main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/github-cli.list > /dev/null
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y gh
```

To check that `gh` has been successfully installed on your machine, you can run:

```bash
gh --version
```

:heavy_check_mark: If you see `gh version X.Y.Z (YYYY-MM-DD)`, you're good to go :+1:

:x: Otherwise, please **contact a teacher**
