_partials/gh_cli.md, before:

## GitHub CLI

CLI is the acronym of [Command-line Interface](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command-line_interface).

In this section, we will use [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/) to interact with GitHub directly from the terminal.

It should already be installed on your computer from the previous commands.

First in order to **login**, copy-paste the following command in your terminal:

:warning: **DO NOT edit the `email`**

```bash
gh auth login -s 'user:email' -w
```

You will get the following output:

```bash
! First copy your one-time code: 0EF9-D015
- Press Enter to open github.com in your browser...
```

Select and copy the code (`0EF9-D015` in the example), then press `ENTER`.

Your browser will open and ask you to authorize GitHub CLI to use your GitHub account. Accept and wait a bit.

Come back to the terminal, press `ENTER` again, and that's it.

To check that you are properly connected, type:

```bash
gh auth status
```

:heavy_check_mark: If you get `Logged in to github.com as <YOUR USERNAME> `, then all good :+1:

:x: If not, **contact a teacher**.

Then run the following configuration line:

```bash
gh config set git_protocol ssh
```

Commit message:

22q4 setup bug bash (#369)
* remove ssh key partial

* fix typo and add warning

* remove ssh_key partials

* adding a link to the cheatsheet section in the intro

* add emoji

* build

* setup guides generated

* move curl installation up along with other cli tools

* add escaped double quote to support username with special characters like dash

* Update _partials/gh_cli.md

Co-authored-by: Gaëtan Manchon <34584935+gmanchon@users.noreply.github.com>

* setup guides generated

* replace ENTRÉE by Enter in fr partials and translate gh_cli partial into fr

* translate cli_tools partial in fr and es, search and replace ENTER -> Enter & rebuild

* update whoami command in es

* setup guides generated

* remove useless partials

* setup guides generated

* remove localized git partials

* add extra line break

* setup guides generated

Co-authored-by: github-actions <github-actions@github.com>
Co-authored-by: Gaëtan Manchon <34584935+gmanchon@users.noreply.github.com>

_partials/gh_cli.md, after:

## GitHub CLI

CLI is the acronym of [Command-line Interface](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command-line_interface).

In this section, we will use [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/) to interact with GitHub directly from the terminal.

It should already be installed on your computer from the previous commands.

First in order to **login**, copy-paste the following command in your terminal:

:warning: **DO NOT edit the `email`**

```bash
gh auth login -s 'user:email' -w
```

gh will ask you few questions:

`What is your preferred protocol for Git operations?` With the arrows, choose `SSH` and press `Enter`. SSH is a protocol to log in using SSH keys instead of the well known username/password pair.

`Generate a new SSH key to add to your GitHub account?` Press `Enter` to ask gh to generate the SSH keys for you.

If you already have SSH keys, you will see instead `Upload your SSH public key to your GitHub account?` With the arrows, select your public key file path and press `Enter`.

`Enter a passphrase for your new SSH key (Optional)`. Type something you want and that you'll remember. It's a password to protect your private key stored on your hard drive. Then press `Enter`.

:warning: When you type your passphrase, nothing will show up on the screen, **that's normal**. This is a security feature to mask not only your passphrase as a whole but also its length. Just type your passphrase and when you're done, press `Enter`.

You will then get the following output:

```bash
! First copy your one-time code: 0EF9-D015
- Press Enter to open github.com in your browser...
```

Select and copy the code (`0EF9-D015` in the example), then press `Enter`.

Your browser will open and ask you to authorize GitHub CLI to use your GitHub account. Accept and wait a bit.

Come back to the terminal, press `Enter` again, and that's it.

To check that you are properly connected, type:

```bash
gh auth status
```

:heavy_check_mark: If you get `Logged in to github.com as <YOUR USERNAME> `, then all good :+1:

:x: If not, **contact a teacher**.
