_partials/github_rsa.md, before:

## GitHub

We need to generate SSH keys which are going to be used by GitHub and Heroku
to authenticate you. Think of it as a way to log in, but different from the
well known username/password couple. If you already generated keys
that you already use with other services, you can skip this step.

Open a terminal and type this, replacing the email with **yours** (the
same one you used to create your GitHub account). It will prompt
for information. Just press enter until it asks for a **passphrase**.

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.ssh && ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -o -a 100 -f ~/.ssh/id_ed25519 -C "TYPE_YOUR_EMAIL@HERE.com"
```

**NB:** when asked for a passphrase, put something you want (and that you'll remember),
it's a password to protect your private key stored on your hard drive. You'll type,
nothing will show up on the screen, **that's normal**. Just type the passphrase,
and when you're done, press `Enter`.

Then you need to give your **public** key to GitHub. Run:

```bash
cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub
```

It will prompt on the screen the content of the `id_ed25519.pub` file.


>\- Copy that text  
>\- Go to [github.com/settings/ssh](https://github.com/settings/ssh)  
>\- Click on `Add SSH key`  
>\- Fill in the Title with your computer name  
>\- Paste the **Key**  
>\- Finish by clicking on the **Add key** green button.


To check that this step is completed, in the terminal run this.

```bash
ssh -T git@github.com
```

:warning: You will be prompted a warning, type `yes` then `Enter`.

This is the expected result:

```
# Hi --------! You've successfully authenticated, but GitHub does not provide shell access
```

&nbsp;

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :white_check_mark: If you got this message, the keys were added successfully!

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :x: If you encountered an error, you will have to try again. Do not hesitate to *contact a teacher*.


---

#### :wrench: Potential Fixes

<details>
  <summary>If `ssh -T git@github.com` does not work</summary>

  &nbsp;
  
  
  Try running this command before trying again:

  ```bash
  ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
  ```
  </details>

---


Don't be in a rush, take time to [read this article](http://sebastien.saunier.me/blog/2015/05/10/github-public-key-authentication.html) to get a better
understanding of what those keys are used for.

Commit message:

After beta-testing with Students: specify a SSH key starts with 'ssh' and includes the email address

_partials/github_rsa.md, after:

## GitHub

We need to generate SSH keys which are going to be used by GitHub and Heroku
to authenticate you. Think of it as a way to log in, but different from the
well known username/password couple. If you already generated keys
that you already use with other services, you can skip this step.

Open a terminal and type this, replacing the email with **yours** (the
same one you used to create your GitHub account). It will prompt
for information. Just press enter until it asks for a **passphrase**.

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.ssh && ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -o -a 100 -f ~/.ssh/id_ed25519 -C "TYPE_YOUR_EMAIL@HERE.com"
```

**NB:** when asked for a passphrase, put something you want (and that you'll remember),
it's a password to protect your private key stored on your hard drive. You'll type,
nothing will show up on the screen, **that's normal**. Just type the passphrase,
and when you're done, press `Enter`.

Then you need to give your **public** key to GitHub. Run:

```bash
cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub
```

It will prompt on the screen the content of the `id_ed25519.pub` file.


>\- Copy that text from `ssh` to the end of your email address  
>\- Go to [github.com/settings/ssh](https://github.com/settings/ssh)  
>\- Click on `Add SSH key`  
>\- Fill in the Title with your computer name  
>\- Paste the **Key**  
>\- Finish by clicking on the **Add key** green button.


To check that this step is completed, in the terminal run this.

```bash
ssh -T git@github.com
```

:warning: You will be prompted a warning, type `yes` then `Enter`.

This is the expected result:

```
# Hi --------! You've successfully authenticated, but GitHub does not provide shell access
```

&nbsp;

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :white_check_mark: If you got this message, the keys were added successfully!

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :x: If you encountered an error, you will have to try again. Do not hesitate to *contact a teacher*.


---

#### :wrench: Potential Fixes

<details>
  <summary>If `ssh -T git@github.com` does not work</summary>

  &nbsp;
  
  
  Try running this command before trying again:

  ```bash
  ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
  ```
  </details>

---


Don't be in a rush, take time to [read this article](http://sebastien.saunier.me/blog/2015/05/10/github-public-key-authentication.html) to get a better
understanding of what those keys are used for.
