_partials/macos_settings.md, before:

## macOS settings

### Security

It is mandatory that you protect your session behind a password.If it is not already the case, go to ` > System Preferences > Users & Groups` and change your account password. You should also go to ` > System Preferences > Security > General`. You should require a password `5 seconds` after sleep or screen saver begins.

You can also go to ` > System Preferences > Mission Control` and click on the `Hot Corners` button at the bottom left. Choose for the bottom right corner to start the screen saver. That way, when you leave your desk, you can quickly lock you screen by putting your mouse in the bottom right corner. 5 seconds after, your Macbook will be locked and will ask for a password to get back on the session.

### Keyboard

As you become a programmer, you'll understand that leaving the keyboard takes a lot of time, so you'll want to minimize using the trackpad or the mouse. Here are a few tricks on macOS to help you do that.

#### Keyboard speed

Go to ` > System Preferences > Keyboard`. Set `Key Repeat` to the fastest position (to the right) and `Delay Until Repeat` to the shortest position (to the right).

#### macOS For hackers

[Read this script](https://github.com/mathiasbynens/dotfiles/blob/master/.macos) and cherry-pick some stuff you think will suit you. For instance, you can type in the terminal this one:

```bash
# Expanding the save panel by default
defaults write NSGlobalDomain NSNavPanelExpandedStateForSaveMode -bool true
defaults write NSGlobalDomain PMPrintingExpandedStateForPrint -bool true
defaults write NSGlobalDomain PMPrintingExpandedStateForPrint2 -bool true

# Save screenshots to the Desktop (or elsewhere)
defaults write com.apple.screencapture location "${HOME}/Desktop"

# etc..
```

### Pin apps to your dock

You are going to use most of the apps you've installed today really often. Let's pin them to your dock so that they are just one click away!

To pin an app to your dock, launch the app, right-click on the icon in the taskbar to bring up the context menu and choose "Options" then "Keep in Dock".

![How to pin an app to the taskbar in macOS](images/macos_dock.png)

You must pin:
- Your terminal
- Your file explorer
- VS Code
- Your Internet browser
- Slack
- Zoom

Commit message:

MacOS tweaks update to Sonoma (#472)
* MacOS tweaks update to Sonoma

* Update _partials/es/macos_settings.md

* Update French and Portuguese

---------

Co-authored-by: Alexander Dubovoy <39504104+ajdubovoy@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Alexander Dubovoy <ajdubovoy@gmail.com>

_partials/macos_settings.md, after:

## macOS settings

### Security

It is mandatory that you protect your session behind a password. If it is not already the case, go to ` > System Settings... > Users & Groups` and change your account password. You should also go to ` > System Settings... > Lock Screen`. You should require a password `5 seconds` after screen saver begins or display is turned off.

You can also go to ` > System Settings... > Desktop & Dock` and click on the `Hot Corners...` button at the bottom left. Choose for the bottom right corner to start the screen saver. That way, when you leave your desk, you can quickly lock you screen by putting your mouse in the bottom right corner. 5 seconds after, your MacBook will be locked and will ask for a password to get back on the session.

### Keyboard

As you become a programmer, you'll understand that leaving the keyboard takes a lot of time, so you'll want to minimize using the trackpad or the mouse. Here are a few tricks on macOS to help you do that.

#### Keyboard speed

Go to ` > System Settings... > Keyboard`. Set `Key repeat rate` to the fastest position (to the right) and `Delay until repeat` to the shortest position (also to the right).

#### macOS For hackers

[Read this script](https://github.com/mathiasbynens/dotfiles/blob/master/.macos) and cherry-pick some stuff you think will suit you. For instance, you can type in the terminal this one:

```bash
# Expanding the save panel by default
defaults write NSGlobalDomain NSNavPanelExpandedStateForSaveMode -bool true
defaults write NSGlobalDomain PMPrintingExpandedStateForPrint -bool true
defaults write NSGlobalDomain PMPrintingExpandedStateForPrint2 -bool true

# Save screenshots to the Desktop (or elsewhere)
defaults write com.apple.screencapture location "${HOME}/Desktop"

# etc..
```

### Pin apps to your dock

You are going to use most of the apps you've installed today really often. Let's pin them to your dock so that they are just one click away!

To pin an app to your dock, launch the app, right-click on the icon in the taskbar to bring up the context menu and choose "Options" then "Keep in Dock".

![How to pin an app to the taskbar in macOS](images/macos_dock.png)

You must pin:
- Your terminal
- Your file explorer
- VS Code
- Your Internet browser
- Slack
- Zoom
