_partials/macos_homebrew.md, before:

## Homebrew

[Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) is a package manager: it's a software used to install other software from the command line. Let's install it!

Open a terminal and run:

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

This will ask for your confirmation (hit `Enter`) and your **macOS user account password** (the one you use to [log in](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/HT202860) when you reboot your Macbook).

:warning: When you type your password, nothing will show up on the screen, **that's normal**. This is a security feature to mask not only your password as a whole but also its length. Just type your password and when you're done, press `Enter`.

If you already have Homebrew, it will tell you so, that's fine, go on.

Then install some useful software:

```bash
brew update
```

If you get a `/usr/local must be writable` error, just run this:

```bash
sudo chown -R $USER:admin /usr/local
brew update
```

Error message or not, proceed running the following in the terminal (you can copy / paste all the lines at once).

```bash
brew upgrade git || brew install git
brew upgrade gh || brew install gh
brew upgrade wget || brew install wget
brew upgrade imagemagick || brew install imagemagick
brew upgrade jq || brew install jq
brew upgrade openssl || brew install openssl
```

Commit message:

2022 Q3 update + Rails 7 (#393)
* remove ssh key partial

* fix typo and add warning

* remove ssh_key partials

* adding a link to the cheatsheet section in the intro

* add emoji

* build

* setup guides generated

* move curl installation up along with other cli tools

* add escaped double quote to support username with special characters like dash

* Update _partials/gh_cli.md

Co-authored-by: Gaëtan Manchon <34584935+gmanchon@users.noreply.github.com>

* setup guides generated

* replace ENTRÉE by Enter in fr partials and translate gh_cli partial into fr

* translate cli_tools partial in fr and es, search and replace ENTER -> Enter & rebuild

* update whoami command in es

* setup guides generated

* remove useless partials

* setup guides generated

* remove localized git partials

* release condition on rails version

* setup guides generated

* build

* add extra line break

* setup guides generated

* setup guides generated

* [DO NOT MERGE] 2022 Q3 update (#391)

* update ruby to 3.1.2

* update node version

* update gems

* add sqlite3 to the setup

* add faker & rest-client gems to be able to launch tests locally in fullstack-solutions

* add information that hyper-v is non-blocking

* remove outdated settings

* add warming about homebrew

* add gitsome remove instruction in windows and ubuntu cheatsheets

* translate homebrew warning in spanish and french

* build

* scale down homebrew warning image

* shrink image

* chinese translation for q3 update (#394)

Co-authored-by: Damien Milon <37899667+dmilon@users.noreply.github.com>

* include rails in list of required gems

Co-authored-by: github-actions <github-actions@github.com>
Co-authored-by: Gaëtan Manchon <34584935+gmanchon@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Xun <43337020+xunma@users.noreply.github.com>

_partials/macos_homebrew.md, after:

## Homebrew

[Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) is a package manager: it's a software used to install other software from the command line. Let's install it!

Open a terminal and run:

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

This will ask for your confirmation (hit `Enter`) and your **macOS user account password** (the one you use to [log in](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/HT202860) when you reboot your Macbook).

:warning: When you type your password, nothing will show up on the screen, **that's normal**. This is a security feature to mask not only your password as a whole but also its length. Just type your password and when you're done, press `Enter`.

:warning: If you see this warning :point_down:, run the two commands in the `Next steps` section to add Homebrew to your PATH

![macOS Homebrew installation warning](images/macos_homebrew_warning.png)

If you already have Homebrew, it will tell you so, that's fine, go on.

Then install some useful software:

```bash
brew update
```

If you get a `/usr/local must be writable` error, just run this:

```bash
sudo chown -R $USER:admin /usr/local
brew update
```

Error message or not, proceed running the following in the terminal (you can copy / paste all the lines at once).

```bash
brew upgrade git || brew install git
brew upgrade gh || brew install gh
brew upgrade wget || brew install wget
brew upgrade imagemagick || brew install imagemagick
brew upgrade jq || brew install jq
brew upgrade openssl || brew install openssl
```
