_partials/osx_oh_my_zsh.md, before:

## Oh-my-zsh - Fancy your Terminal

We will use the shell named `zsh` instead of `bash`, the default one.

```bash
sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh/master/tools/install.sh)"
```

Be careful, at the end of this script, it will prompt for your laptop password again. You have to write it correctly (you will not see it when you type) and hit `Enter`. You should get something like:

```bash
         __                                     __
  ____  / /_     ____ ___  __  __   ____  _____/ /_
 / __ \/ __ \   / __ `__ \/ / / /  /_  / / ___/ __ \
/ /_/ / / / /  / / / / / / /_/ /    / /_(__  ) / / /
\____/_/ /_/  /_/ /_/ /_/\__, /    /___/____/_/ /_/
                        /____/                       ....is now installed!
````

Now quit the Terminal (`⌘` + `Q`) and restart it.

You should see something like this:

![](images/on-my-zsh.png)

If not, **stop right away** and call a teacher.

On Mac, open `Terminal > Preferences` and set the "Pro" theme as default in `Profiles` (*`Réglages`* in French).

![](images/terminal-pro.png)

Quit and relaunch the Terminal. It should now have a nice black background, more easy on the eyes.

Commit message:

Replace hub with gh. Pimp up Setup with macOS Big Sur screenshots

_partials/osx_oh_my_zsh.md, after:

## Oh-my-zsh - Fancy your Terminal

We will use the shell named `zsh` instead of `bash`, the default one, alongside with useful and fancy [`oh-my-zsh`](https://ohmyz.sh/) plugins:

```bash
sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.github.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh/master/tools/install.sh)"
```

Be careful, at the end of this script, it will prompt for your macOS user account password again (Remember! No visual feedback!). You should get something like:

```bash
         __                                     __
  ____  / /_     ____ ___  __  __   ____  _____/ /_
 / __ \/ __ \   / __ `__ \/ / / /  /_  / / ___/ __ \
/ /_/ / / / /  / / / / / / /_/ /    / /_(__  ) / / /
\____/_/ /_/  /_/ /_/ /_/\__, /    /___/____/_/ /_/
                        /____/                       ....is now installed!
````

Now quit the Terminal (`⌘` + `Q`) and restart it.

You should see something like this:

![](images/on-my-zsh.png)

If not, **stop right away** and call a teacher.

On Mac, open `Terminal > Preferences` and set the "Pro" theme as default in `Profiles` (*`Réglages`* in French).

![](images/terminal-pro.png)

**Quit** and restart the Terminal. It should now have a nice black background, more easy on the eyes.

:bulb: There are plenty of themes available on the Internet like [MaterialDark](https://github.com/lysyi3m/macos-terminal-themes#materialdark-download) if you fancy trying another one. That's something you can configure later during the day or come back to it if you are done with your setup early. Please carry on with the Github setup!
