_partials/osx_command_line_tools.md, before:

## ## A note about quitting apps on a Mac

Clicking the little red cross in the top left corner of the application window on a Mac **does not really quit it**, it just closes an active window. To quit the application _for real_ either press `Cmd + Q` when the application is active, or navigate to `APP_NAME` -> `Quit` in the menu bar.

![quit.png](images/quit.png)

During this setup you will be asked to **quit and re-open** applications multiple times, please make sure you do it properly :pray:

## Command Line Tools

Open the Terminal (click the magnifying glass icon in the top right corner of your screen and type `Terminal`):

![](images/open-terminal.png)

Copy-paste the following command in the terminal and hit Enter.

```bash
xcode-select --install
```

If you'll receive the following message, you can just skip this step and go to next step.

```
# command line tools are already installed, use "Software Update" to install updates
```

Otherwise, it will open a window asking you if you want to install some software. Accept and wait. If it fails, try again the command line above, sometimes the Apple servers are overloaded.

![](images/xcode-select-install.png)

While it's downloading, you can go on with configuring your GitHub account, but **stop** before Homebrew. You'll need the command line tools installed for that step.

Commit message:

replace `xcode-select --install` which systematically produces the error "Xcode is not currently available from the Software Update server" by a direct download from apple followed by installation

_partials/osx_command_line_tools.md, after:

## A note about quitting apps on a Mac

Clicking the little red cross in the top left corner of the application window on a Mac **does not really quit it**, it just closes an active window. To quit the application _for real_ either press `Cmd + Q` when the application is active, or navigate to `APP_NAME` -> `Quit` in the menu bar.

![quit.png](images/quit.png)

During this setup you will be asked to **quit and re-open** applications multiple times, please make sure you do it properly :pray:

## Command Line Tools

Go to [Downloads for Apple Developers](https://developer.apple.com/download/more/).

Sign in or create an account.

Download [Command Line Tools for Xcode 12](https://download.developer.apple.com/Developer_Tools/Command_Line_Tools_for_Xcode_12/Command_Line_Tools_for_Xcode_12.dmg).

Open the `Command_Line_Tools_for_Xcode_12.dmg` file by double clicking on it.

Open the `Command Line Tools.pkg` file by double clicking on it and follow the instructions.

If you see the following message, you can proceed to the following step. If it fails, call a teacher.

![macos_cl_tools_success.png](images/macos_cl_tools_success.png)
