_partials/remote_tools.md, before:

## Remote tools

To be able to interact when we are not in the same physical room, we will be using two tools:

### Zoom

Zoom is a video conferencing tool. To create an account and install the app, go to [https://zoom.us/download](https://zoom.us/download) and under **Zoom Client for Meetings** click the **Download** button. Open the file you have just downloaded. A progress bar will appear, then Zoom will start. Click on **Connection** and create an account with the **Sign Up Free** option:

![zoom-sign-up-free.png](images/zoom-sign-up-free.png)

Once connected, you should see:

![zoom-welcome-screen.png](images/zoom-welcome-screen.png)

You can close Zoom now.

### Teamviewer

For the most complicated problems, a teacher might have to take control of your computer. To be able to do this, we will need to use the Teamviewer tool. Go to the [Teamviewer download page](https://www.teamviewer.com/en/download). It should automatically detect your operating system. If it doesn't, choose your operating system from the list at the top of the page. Click on **Download Teamviewer** and open the file you just have downloaded. Leave the default settings as they are and click on **Accept**. A progress bar will appear, then Teamviewer will start when the installation is over. It should look like this:

![teamviewer.jpg](images/teamviewer.jpg)

This will only be used as last resort when debugging becomes too tricky through spoken word. Nobody will ever be able to take control of your screen without you knowing it :ok_hand:

You can close Teamviewer now.

If you are not familiar with video calls, here is a great [article](https://martinfowler.com/articles/effective-video-calls.html) full of good practices :camera: :microphone:

Commit message:

ensure that existing zoom versions are at least 5.4

_partials/remote_tools.md, after:

## Remote tools

To be able to interact when we are not in the same physical room, we will be using two tools:

### Zoom

⚠️ If you already have Zoom installed, please make sure that the version is at least **5.4**. Otherwise, you will not be able to use breakout rooms in order to work with your buddy.

Zoom is a video conferencing tool. To create an account and install the app, go to [https://zoom.us/download](https://zoom.us/download) and under **Zoom Client for Meetings** click the **Download** button. Open the file you have just downloaded. A progress bar will appear, then Zoom will start. Click on **Connection** and create an account with the **Sign Up Free** option:

![zoom-sign-up-free.png](images/zoom-sign-up-free.png)

Once connected, you should see:

![zoom-welcome-screen.png](images/zoom-welcome-screen.png)

You can close Zoom now.

### Teamviewer

For the most complicated problems, a teacher might have to take control of your computer. To be able to do this, we will need to use the Teamviewer tool. Go to the [Teamviewer download page](https://www.teamviewer.com/en/download). It should automatically detect your operating system. If it doesn't, choose your operating system from the list at the top of the page. Click on **Download Teamviewer** and open the file you just have downloaded. Leave the default settings as they are and click on **Accept**. A progress bar will appear, then Teamviewer will start when the installation is over. It should look like this:

![teamviewer.jpg](images/teamviewer.jpg)

This will only be used as last resort when debugging becomes too tricky through spoken word. Nobody will ever be able to take control of your screen without you knowing it :ok_hand:

You can close Teamviewer now.

If you are not familiar with video calls, here is a great [article](https://martinfowler.com/articles/effective-video-calls.html) full of good practices :camera: :microphone:
