_partials/windows_ubuntu.md, before:

## Ubuntu

### Installation

:information_source: The following instructions depend on your version of Windows. Please execute only the instructions corresponding to your version :point_down:

#### Windows 11

If you are running Windows 11, after restarting you computer, you should see a terminal window saying WSL is resuming the Ubuntu installation process. When it's done, Ubuntu will be launched.

#### Windows 10

If you are running Windows 10, let's install Ubuntu throught the Microsoft Store:

- Click on `Start`
- Type  `Microsoft Store`
- Click on `Microsoft Store` in the list
- Search for `Ubuntu` in the search bar
- **Select version without any number, just plain "Ubuntu"**
- Click on `Get`

:warning: Don't install **Ubuntu 18.04 LTS** nor **Ubuntu 20.04**!

<details>
  <summary>Uninstall wrong versions of Ubuntu</summary>

  To uninstall a wrong version of Ubuntu, you just have to go to the Installed Program List of Windows 10:
  - Press `Windows` + `R`
  - Type  `ms-settings:appsfeatures`
  - Press `Enter`

  Find the software to uninstall and click on the uninstall button.
</details>

Once the installation is finished, the `Get` button becomes a `Open` button: click on it.

### First launch

At first launch, you will be asked some information:
- Choose a **username**:
    - one word
    - lowercase
    - no special characters
    - for example: `lewagon` or your `firstname`
- Choose a **password**
- Confirm your password

:warning: When you type your password, nothing will show up on the screen, **that's normal**. This is a security feature to mask not only your password as a whole but also its length. Just type your password and when you're done, press `Enter`.

You can close the Ubuntu window now that it is installed on your computer.

### Check the WSL version of Ubuntu

- Press `Windows` + `R`
- Type  `cmd`
- Press `Enter`

Type the following command:

```bash
wsl -l -v
```

:heavy_check_mark: If the version of Ubuntu WSL is 2, you are good to go :+1:

:x: If the version of Ubuntu WSL is 1, we will need to convert it to version 2.

<details>
  <summary>Convert Ubuntu WSL V1 to V2</summary>

  In the Command Prompt window, type:

  ```bash
  wsl --set-version Ubuntu 2
  ```

  :heavy_check_mark: After a few seconds, you should get the following message: `The conversion is complete`.

  :x: If it does not work, we need to be sure that Ubuntu files are not compressed.
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Check for Uncompressed Files</summary>

  - Press `Windows` + `R`
  - Type  `%localappdata%\Packages`
  - Press `Enter`
  - Open the folder named `CanonicalGroupLimited.UbuntuonWindows...`
  - Right Click on the `LocalState` folder
  - Click on `Properties`
  - Click on `Advanced`
  - Make sure that the option `Compress content` is **not** ticked, then click on `Ok`.

  Apply changes to this folder only and try to convert the Ubuntu WSL version again.

  :x: If the conversion still does not work, please **contact a teacher**.
</details>

### Check the locale

The locale is a mechanism allowing to customize programs to your language and country.

Let's verify that the default locale is set to English, please type this in the Ubuntu terminal:

```bash
locale
```

If the output does not contain `LANG=en_US.UTF-8`, run the following command in a Ubuntu terminal to install the english locale:

```bash
sudo locale-gen en_US.UTF-8
```

If after, you receive a warning (`bash: warning: setlocale: LC_ALL: cannot change locale (en_US.utf-8)`) in your terminal, please do the following:

<details>
  <summary>Generate locale</summary>

Please, run this lines in your terminal.

```bash
sudo update-locale LANG=en_US.UTF8
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install language-pack-en language-pack-en-base manpages
```
</details>

You can now close this terminal window.

Commit message:

Align Windows 11 and 10 WSL installation (#483)
* Align Windows 11 and 10 WSL installation

Starting from Windows 10 2004 (May 2020 Update), WSL 2 is the default
version of WSL. The instructions for installing WSL 2 are now the same
for both Windows 10 and Windows 11.

Adapted the instructions as such, to have a common installation process.

This will:
- make the setup easier for remaining Windows 10 users,
- reduce the  number of cases where Windows 11 users started following
  the Windows 10 instructions by mistake,
- make it easier to maintain the instructions in the future,
- make it easy to remove the Windows 10 instructions later.

For this we now run `wsl --install` in the Windows Command Prompt (cmd)
instead of Windows Terminal (wt, for Windows 11) or PowerShell (for
Windows 10).

For troubleshooting reasons, the instructions for Windows 10 < 2004 are
kept in details, just in case.

Adapted EN, FR, ES, PT.

* GHA: Build guides on PR

* GHA: Build guides on push on every branch

* setup guides generated

* Fine tune indentation for Windows 10

* setup guides generated

* Revert changes to build workflow

---------

Co-authored-by: github-actions <github-actions@github.com>

_partials/windows_ubuntu.md, after:

## Ubuntu

### Installation

After restarting you computer, you should see a terminal window saying WSL is resuming the Ubuntu installation process. When it's done, Ubuntu will be launched.

<details>
<summary>Troubleshooting for Windows 10 (only if needed, check with a TA)
</summary>

If the Ubuntu installation did not resume, first try it again: launch Powershell or the Command Prompt again and run `wsl --install` again.

If you are running Windows 10, let's install Ubuntu throught the Microsoft Store:

- Click on `Start`
- Type  `Microsoft Store`
- Click on `Microsoft Store` in the list
- Search for `Ubuntu` in the search bar
- **Select version without any number, just plain "Ubuntu"**
- Click on `Get`

:warning: Don't install **Ubuntu 18.04 LTS** nor **Ubuntu 20.04**!

<details>
  <summary>Uninstall wrong versions of Ubuntu</summary>

  To uninstall a wrong version of Ubuntu, you just have to go to the Installed Program List of Windows 10:
  - Press `Windows` + `R`
  - Type  `ms-settings:appsfeatures`
  - Press `Enter`

  Find the software to uninstall and click on the uninstall button.
</details>

Once the installation is finished, the `Get` button becomes a `Open` button: click on it.

</details>

### First launch

At first launch, you will be asked some information:
- Choose a **username**:
    - one word
    - lowercase
    - no special characters
    - for example: `lewagon` or your `firstname`
- Choose a **password**
- Confirm your password

:warning: When you type your password, nothing will show up on the screen, **that's normal**. This is a security feature to mask not only your password as a whole but also its length. Just type your password and when you're done, press `Enter`.


### Check the WSL version of Ubuntu

- Press `Windows` + `R`
- Type  `cmd`
- Press `Enter`

Type the following command:

```bash
wsl -l -v
```

:heavy_check_mark: If the version of Ubuntu WSL is 2, you are good to go :+1:

:x: If the version of Ubuntu WSL is 1, we will need to convert it to version 2.

<details>
  <summary>Convert Ubuntu WSL V1 to V2</summary>

  In the Command Prompt window, type:

  ```bash
  wsl --set-version Ubuntu 2
  ```

  :heavy_check_mark: After a few seconds, you should get the following message: `The conversion is complete`.

  :x: If it does not work, we need to be sure that Ubuntu files are not compressed.

<details>
  <summary>Check for Uncompressed Files</summary>

  - Press `Windows` + `R`
  - Type  `%localappdata%\Packages`
  - Press `Enter`
  - Open the folder named `CanonicalGroupLimited.UbuntuonWindows...`
  - Right Click on the `LocalState` folder
  - Click on `Properties`
  - Click on `Advanced`
  - Make sure that the option `Compress content` is **not** ticked, then click on `Ok`.

  Apply changes to this folder only and try to convert the Ubuntu WSL version again.

  :x: If the conversion still does not work, please **contact a teacher**.
</details>

You can close this terminal now.

</details>

### Check your username

Type this in the Ubuntu terminal:

```bash
whoami
```

It should return the username you chose before.

:x: It if says `root`, **contact a TA** before continuing!

### Check the locale

The locale is a mechanism allowing to customize programs to your language and country.

Let's verify that the default locale is set to English, please type this in the Ubuntu terminal:

```bash
locale
```

If the output does not contain `LANG=en_US.UTF-8`, run the following command in a Ubuntu terminal to install the english locale:

```bash
sudo locale-gen en_US.UTF-8
```

If after, you receive a warning (`bash: warning: setlocale: LC_ALL: cannot change locale (en_US.utf-8)`) in your terminal, please do the following:

<details>
  <summary>Generate locale</summary>

Please, run this lines in your terminal.

```bash
sudo update-locale LANG=en_US.UTF8
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install language-pack-en language-pack-en-base manpages
```
</details>
