_partials/windows_wsl.md, before:

## Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)

WSL is the development environment we are using to run Ubuntu. You can learn more about WSL [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/faq).

:information_source: The following instructions depend on your version of Windows. Please execute only the instructions corresponding to your version :point_down:

### Windows 11

If you are running Windows 11, we will install WSL 2 and Ubuntu in one command through the Windows Terminal.

:warning: In the following instruction, please be aware of the `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `Enter` key stroke to execute **Windows Terminal** with administrator privileges instead of just clicking on `Ok`or pressing `Enter`.

- Press `Windows` + `R`
- Type  `wt`
- Press **`Ctrl` + `Shift` + `Enter`**

:warning: You may have to accept the UAC confirmation about the privilege elevation.

A blue terminal window will appear:
- Copy the following command (`Ctrl` + `C`)
- Paste it into the terminal window (`Ctrl` + `V` or by right-clicking in the window)
- Run it by pressing `Enter`

```powershell
wsl --install
```

:heavy_check_mark: If the command ran without any error, please restart your computer and continue below :+1:

:x: If you encounter an error message (or if you see some text in red in the window), please **contact a teacher**

### Windows 10

#### Install WSL 1

If you are running Windows 10, we will first install WSL 1 through the PowerShell Terminal.

:warning: In the following instruction, please be aware of the `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `Enter` key stroke to execute **Windows PowerShell** with administrator privileges instead of just clicking on `Ok`or pressing `Enter`.

- Press `Windows` + `R`
- Type  `powershell`
- Press **`Ctrl` + `Shift` + `Enter`**

:warning: You may have to accept the UAC confirmation about the privilege elevation.

A blue terminal window will appear:
- Copy the following commands one by one (`Ctrl` + `C`)
- Paste them into the PowerShell window (`Ctrl` + `V` or by right-clicking in the window)
- Run them by pressing `Enter`

```powershell
Enable-WindowsOptionalFeature -Online -FeatureName Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux
```

```powershell
dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux /all /norestart
```

```powershell
dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:VirtualMachinePlatform /all /norestart
```

:heavy_check_mark: If all three commands ran without any error, please restart your computer and continue below :+1:

:x: If you encounter an error message (or if you see some text in red in the window), please **contact a teacher**

#### Upgrade to WSL 2

If you are running Windows 10, we will then upgrade WSL to version 2.

Once your computer has restarted, we need to download the WSL2 installer.

- Go to the [download page](https://aka.ms/wsl2kernel)
- Download "WSL2 Linux kernel update package"
- Open the file you've just downloaded
- Click `Next`
- Click `Finish`

![Update WSL from version 1 to 2](images/windows_update_wsl.png)

:heavy_check_mark: If didn't encounter any error message, you're good to go :+1:

:x: If you encounter the error "This update only applies to machines with the Windows Subsystem for Linux", **right click** on the program and select `uninstall`; you shall be able to install it normally this time.

#### Make WSL 2 the default Windows Subsystem for Linux

If you are running Windows 10, we will set WSL default version to 2.

Now that WSL 2 is installed, let's make it the default version:
- Press `Windows` + `R`
- Type  `cmd`
- Press `Enter`

In the window which appears, type:

```bash
wsl --set-default-version 2
```

:heavy_check_mark: If you see "The operation completed successfully", you can close this terminal and continue below :+1:

:x: If the message you get is about Virtualization, please **contact a teacher**

<details>
  <summary>Enable Virtual Machine Platform Windows feature</summary>

  Follow the steps described [here](https://www.configserverfirewall.com/windows-10/please-enable-the-virtual-machine-platform-windows-feature-and-ensure-virtualization-is-enabled-in-the-bios/#:~:text=To%20enable%20WSL%202,%20Open,Windows%20feature%20on%20or%20off.&text=Ensure%20that%20the%20Virtual%20Machine,Windows%20will%20enable%20WSL%202) until you enable <strong>Virtual Machine Platform</strong> and <strong>Windows Subsystem for Linux</strong>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Enable Hyper-V Windows feature</summary>

  Follow the steps described [here](https://winaero.com/enable-use-hyper-v-windows-10/) until you enable the group <strong>Hyper-V</strong>
</details>

Commit message:

[DO NOT MERGE] 2022 Q3 update (#391)
* update ruby to 3.1.2

* update node version

* update gems

* add sqlite3 to the setup

* add faker & rest-client gems to be able to launch tests locally in fullstack-solutions

* add information that hyper-v is non-blocking

* remove outdated settings

* add warming about homebrew

* add gitsome remove instruction in windows and ubuntu cheatsheets

* translate homebrew warning in spanish and french

* build

* scale down homebrew warning image

* shrink image

_partials/windows_wsl.md, after:

## Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)

WSL is the development environment we are using to run Ubuntu. You can learn more about WSL [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/faq).

:information_source: The following instructions depend on your version of Windows. Please execute only the instructions corresponding to your version :point_down:

### Windows 11

If you are running Windows 11, we will install WSL 2 and Ubuntu in one command through the Windows Terminal.

:warning: In the following instruction, please be aware of the `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `Enter` key stroke to execute **Windows Terminal** with administrator privileges instead of just clicking on `Ok`or pressing `Enter`.

- Press `Windows` + `R`
- Type  `wt`
- Press **`Ctrl` + `Shift` + `Enter`**

:warning: You may have to accept the UAC confirmation about the privilege elevation.

A blue terminal window will appear:
- Copy the following command (`Ctrl` + `C`)
- Paste it into the terminal window (`Ctrl` + `V` or by right-clicking in the window)
- Run it by pressing `Enter`

```powershell
wsl --install
```

:heavy_check_mark: If the command ran without any error, please restart your computer and continue below :+1:

:x: If you encounter an error message (or if you see some text in red in the window), please **contact a teacher**

### Windows 10

#### Install WSL 1

If you are running Windows 10, we will first install WSL 1 through the PowerShell Terminal.

:warning: In the following instruction, please be aware of the `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `Enter` key stroke to execute **Windows PowerShell** with administrator privileges instead of just clicking on `Ok`or pressing `Enter`.

- Press `Windows` + `R`
- Type  `powershell`
- Press **`Ctrl` + `Shift` + `Enter`**

:warning: You may have to accept the UAC confirmation about the privilege elevation.

A blue terminal window will appear:
- Copy the following commands one by one (`Ctrl` + `C`)
- Paste them into the PowerShell window (`Ctrl` + `V` or by right-clicking in the window)
- Run them by pressing `Enter`

```powershell
Enable-WindowsOptionalFeature -Online -FeatureName Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux
```

```powershell
dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux /all /norestart
```

```powershell
dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:VirtualMachinePlatform /all /norestart
```

:heavy_check_mark: If all three commands ran without any error, please restart your computer and continue below :+1:

:x: If you encounter an error message (or if you see some text in red in the window), please **contact a teacher**

#### Upgrade to WSL 2

If you are running Windows 10, we will then upgrade WSL to version 2.

Once your computer has restarted, we need to download the WSL2 installer.

- Go to the [download page](https://aka.ms/wsl2kernel)
- Download "WSL2 Linux kernel update package"
- Open the file you've just downloaded
- Click `Next`
- Click `Finish`

![Update WSL from version 1 to 2](images/windows_update_wsl.png)

:heavy_check_mark: If didn't encounter any error message, you're good to go :+1:

:x: If you encounter the error "This update only applies to machines with the Windows Subsystem for Linux", **right click** on the program and select `uninstall`; you shall be able to install it normally this time.

#### Make WSL 2 the default Windows Subsystem for Linux

If you are running Windows 10, we will set WSL default version to 2.

Now that WSL 2 is installed, let's make it the default version:
- Press `Windows` + `R`
- Type  `cmd`
- Press `Enter`

In the window which appears, type:

```bash
wsl --set-default-version 2
```

:heavy_check_mark: If you see "The operation completed successfully", you can close this terminal and continue to follow the instructions below :+1:

:x: If the message you get is about Virtualization, please **contact a teacher**

<details>
  <summary>Enable Virtual Machine Platform Windows feature</summary>

  Follow the steps described [here](https://www.configserverfirewall.com/windows-10/please-enable-the-virtual-machine-platform-windows-feature-and-ensure-virtualization-is-enabled-in-the-bios/#:~:text=To%20enable%20WSL%202,%20Open,Windows%20feature%20on%20or%20off.&text=Ensure%20that%20the%20Virtual%20Machine,Windows%20will%20enable%20WSL%202) until you enable <strong>Virtual Machine Platform</strong> and <strong>Windows Subsystem for Linux</strong>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Enable Hyper-V Windows feature</summary>

  Follow the steps described [here](https://winaero.com/enable-use-hyper-v-windows-10/) until you enable the group <strong>Hyper-V</strong>

  :information_source: If you are running Windows 10 **Home edition**, Hyper-V feature is not available for your operating system. It's non-blocking and you can still continue to follow the instructions below :ok_hand:
</details>
