_partials/windows_postgresql.md, before:

## PostgreSQL

Sometimes, SQLite is not enough and we will need a more advanced tool called [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/), an open-source robust and production-ready database system.

Let's install it now.

Run the following commands:

```bash
sudo apt install -y postgresql postgresql-contrib libpq-dev build-essential
```

```bash
sudo /etc/init.d/postgresql start
```

```bash
sudo -u postgres psql --command "CREATE ROLE \"`whoami`\" LOGIN createdb superuser;"
```

You can configure PostgreSQL to autostart, so you don't have to execute `sudo /etc/init.d/postgresql start` each time you open a new terminal:

```bash
sudo echo "`whoami` ALL=NOPASSWD:/etc/init.d/postgresql start" | sudo tee /etc/sudoers.d/postgresql
```

```bash
sudo chmod 440 /etc/sudoers.d/postgresql
```

```bash
echo "sudo /etc/init.d/postgresql start" >> ~/.zshrc
```

Open a new terminal.

:heavy_check_mark: If you see a `* Starting postgresql (via systemctl): postgresql.service` OR `* Starting PostgreSQL 14 database server` message, you're good to go :+1:

:x: If not, **contact a teacher**.

Commit message:

Mention that `sudo -u postgres` throws an error (#458)
* Mention that `sudo -u postgres` throws an error

Running ```sudo -u postgres psql --command "CREATE ROLE \"`whoami`\" LOGIN createdb superuser;"```
in the users home folder within ubuntu WSL throws the following error

```
could not change directory to "/home/student_name": Permission denied
```

The student doing the setup is expeceted to be in his /home/username folder.
Which on WSL ubuntu by default is not accessible to other users on the system.
So when the `su` command switches user, the postgres user can not access
the current directory and that is throwing the permission error.

Which is fine because it does not have to access the current folder at all.
It just has to connect to the postgres database which usually works.
So the permission warning is followed by the success output `CREATE ROLE`.

This might not be obvious to someone following the setup for the first time.
To reduce useless debugging there is now a note hidden in a spoiler that
says that this error is okay.

* Update _partials/windows_postgresql.md

Co-authored-by: Alexander Dubovoy <39504104+ajdubovoy@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Sébastien Saunier <seb@lewagon.org>
Co-authored-by: Alexander Dubovoy <39504104+ajdubovoy@users.noreply.github.com>

_partials/windows_postgresql.md, after:

## PostgreSQL

Sometimes, SQLite is not enough and we will need a more advanced tool called [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/), an open-source robust and production-ready database system.

Let's install it now.

Run the following commands:

```bash
sudo apt install -y postgresql postgresql-contrib libpq-dev build-essential
```

```bash
sudo /etc/init.d/postgresql start
```

```bash
sudo -u postgres psql --command "CREATE ROLE \"`whoami`\" LOGIN createdb superuser;"
```

_📝 If you get an error saying `could not change directory to "/home/your_name": Permission denied` that is totally fine, and there's no need to worry 💆 If, on the first run, it says `CREATE ROLE` in the end all worked fine._

You can configure PostgreSQL to autostart, so you don't have to execute `sudo /etc/init.d/postgresql start` each time you open a new terminal:

```bash
sudo echo "`whoami` ALL=NOPASSWD:/etc/init.d/postgresql start" | sudo tee /etc/sudoers.d/postgresql
```

```bash
sudo chmod 440 /etc/sudoers.d/postgresql
```

```bash
echo "sudo /etc/init.d/postgresql start" >> ~/.zshrc
```

Open a new terminal.

:heavy_check_mark: If you see a `* Starting postgresql (via systemctl): postgresql.service` OR `* Starting PostgreSQL 14 database server` message, you're good to go :+1:

:x: If not, **contact a teacher**.
