_partials/wsl2_install_wsl.md, before:

## Windows Subsystem for Linux
### Install WSL 1
WSL is the development environment we are using to run Ubuntu. You can learn more about WSL [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/faq).

We will install WSL through the Powershell Terminal:


>\- Press `Windows` + `R`  
>\- Type  `powershell`  
>\- Press `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `Return`


:warning: Be aware of the `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `Return` key stroke to execute **Windows Powershell** with administrator privileges.

:warning: You may have to accept the UAC confirmation about the privilege elevation.


&nbsp;  
A blue terminal window will appear:


>\- Copy the following commands  
>\- Paste them into the Powershell window by right-clicking into it (`Ctrl` + `V` does not work here!)  
>\- Run them by pressing `Return`


&nbsp;  
```powershell
Enable-WindowsOptionalFeature -Online -FeatureName Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux
```

```powershell
dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux /all /norestart
```

```powershell
dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:VirtualMachinePlatform /all /norestart
```

&nbsp;


&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :x: If you encounter an error message (or if you see some text in red in the window), please **contact a teacher**!

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :white_check_mark: When all three commands ran without any error, you can restart your computer.


### Upgrade to WSL 2
Once your computer has restarted, we need to download the WSL2 installer.


>\- Go to the [download page](https://aka.ms/wsl2kernel) and get the installer  
>\- Click `Next`  
>\- Click `Finish`

![update_wsl](images/update_wsl.jpg)

&nbsp;

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :x: If you encounter the error `This update only applies to machines with the Windows Subsystem for Linux`, **right click** on the program and select `uninstall`; you shall be able to install it normally this time.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :white_check_mark: If everything is fine, we are ready to use WSL 2 instead of WSL 1!

### Make WSL 2 the default Windows Subsystem for Linux
Now that WSL 2 is installed, let's use it by default when we deal with WSL:


>\- Press `Windows` + `R`  
>\- Type  `cmd`  
>\- Press `Return`


In the window which appears, type:

```bash
wsl --set-default-version 2
```

&nbsp;


&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :x: If the message you get talks about Virtualization, please **contact a teacher**

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :white_check_mark: You can close this Command Prompt terminal; we are ready to install Ubuntu!


## Ubuntu
### Installation


>\- Click on `Start`  
>\- Type  `Microsoft Store`  
>\- Click on the Microsoft Windows Store in the list
>
>
>\- Search for `Ubuntu` in the search bar  
>\- Select version without any number, just plain "Ubuntu"
>
>
>\- Click on `Install`


:warning: Don't install **Ubuntu 18.04 LTS** nor **Ubuntu 20.04**!

---

#### :wrench: Potential Fixes


<details>
  <summary>Uninstall wrong versions of Ubuntu</summary>

  &nbsp;
  
  
  To uninstall a wrong version of Ubuntu, you just have to go to the Installed Program List of Windows 10:


  >\- Press `Windows` + `R`  
  >\- Type  `appwiz.cpl`  
  >\- Press `Return`


  Find the right software to uninstall, and click on the uninstall button.
</details>

---


&nbsp;
Once the installation is done, the `Install` button becomes a `Launch` button:


>\- Click on `Launch`


At first launch, you will be asked some information:
- Choose a **username**:
    - one word
    - lowercase
    - no special characters
    - for example: `lewagon` or your `firstname`
- Choose a **password**
- Confirm your password


:warning: When typing the password, nothing will not appear on the screen — there will be no familiar typing indicator even though your keystrokes are being registered!

:warning: This is a security feature to mask not only your password as a whole but also its length!


&nbsp;


&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :white_check_mark: The installation should be complete; you can close the Ubuntu window now that it is installed on your computer.

### Check the WSL version of Ubuntu 


>\- Press `Windows` + `R`  
>\- Type  `cmd`  
>\- Press `Return`


Type the following command:

```bash
wsl -l -v
```

&nbsp;

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :x: If the version of Ubuntu WSL is 1, we will need to convert it to version 2.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :white_check_mark: If the version of Ubuntu WSL is 2, you are ready to install VS Code!


---

#### :wrench: Potential Fixes


<details>
  <summary>Convert Ubuntu WSL V1 to V2</summary>

  
  &nbsp;
  
  
  In the Command Prompt window, type:

  ```bash
  wsl --set-version Ubuntu 2
  ```
  
  &nbsp;

  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :white_check_mark: After a few seconds, you should get the following message: `The conversion is complete`.

  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :x: If it does not work, we need to be sure that Ubuntu files are not compressed.
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Check for Uncompress Files</summary>


  &nbsp;
  >\- Press `Windows` + `R`  
  >\- Type  `%localappdata%\Packages`  
  >\- Press `Return`
  >
  >
  >\- Open the folder named `CanonicalGroupLimited.UbuntuonWindows...`  
  >\- Right Click on the `LocalState` folder  
  >\- Click on `Properties`  
  >\- Click on `Advanced`  
  >\- Make sure that the option `Compress content` is **not** ticked, then click on `Ok`.
  

  Apply changes to this folder only, and try to convert the Ubuntu WSL version again.


  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :x: If the conversion still does not work, please **contact a teacher**.
</details>

---


(You can now close this Command Prompt window.)

Commit message:

After beta-testing with Students: Make clearer instruction to get to Powershell with administrator privileges

_partials/wsl2_install_wsl.md, after:

## Windows Subsystem for Linux
### Install WSL 1
WSL is the development environment we are using to run Ubuntu. You can learn more about WSL [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/faq).

We will install WSL through the Powershell Terminal:


:warning: In the following instruction, please aware of the `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `Return` key stroke to execute **Windows Powershell** with administrator privileges instead of just clicking on `Ok`or pressing `Return`.


>\- Press `Windows` + `R`  
>\- Type  `powershell`  
>\- Press `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `Return`


:warning: You may have to accept the UAC confirmation about the privilege elevation.


&nbsp;  
A blue terminal window will appear:


>\- Copy the following commands  
>\- Paste them into the Powershell window by right-clicking into it (`Ctrl` + `V` does not work here!)  
>\- Run them by pressing `Return`


&nbsp;  
```powershell
Enable-WindowsOptionalFeature -Online -FeatureName Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux
```

```powershell
dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux /all /norestart
```

```powershell
dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:VirtualMachinePlatform /all /norestart
```

&nbsp;


&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :x: If you encounter an error message (or if you see some text in red in the window), please **contact a teacher**!

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :white_check_mark: When all three commands ran without any error, you can restart your computer.


### Upgrade to WSL 2
Once your computer has restarted, we need to download the WSL2 installer.


>\- Go to the [download page](https://aka.ms/wsl2kernel) and get the installer  
>\- Click `Next`  
>\- Click `Finish`

![update_wsl](images/update_wsl.jpg)

&nbsp;

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :x: If you encounter the error `This update only applies to machines with the Windows Subsystem for Linux`, **right click** on the program and select `uninstall`; you shall be able to install it normally this time.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :white_check_mark: If everything is fine, we are ready to use WSL 2 instead of WSL 1!

### Make WSL 2 the default Windows Subsystem for Linux
Now that WSL 2 is installed, let's use it by default when we deal with WSL:


>\- Press `Windows` + `R`  
>\- Type  `cmd`  
>\- Press `Return`


In the window which appears, type:

```bash
wsl --set-default-version 2
```

&nbsp;


&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :x: If the message you get talks about Virtualization, please **contact a teacher**

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :white_check_mark: You can close this Command Prompt terminal; we are ready to install Ubuntu!


## Ubuntu
### Installation


>\- Click on `Start`  
>\- Type  `Microsoft Store`  
>\- Click on the Microsoft Windows Store in the list
>
>
>\- Search for `Ubuntu` in the search bar  
>\- Select version without any number, just plain "Ubuntu"
>
>
>\- Click on `Install`


:warning: Don't install **Ubuntu 18.04 LTS** nor **Ubuntu 20.04**!

---

#### :wrench: Potential Fixes


<details>
  <summary>Uninstall wrong versions of Ubuntu</summary>

  &nbsp;
  
  
  To uninstall a wrong version of Ubuntu, you just have to go to the Installed Program List of Windows 10:


  >\- Press `Windows` + `R`  
  >\- Type  `appwiz.cpl`  
  >\- Press `Return`


  Find the right software to uninstall, and click on the uninstall button.
</details>

---


&nbsp;
Once the installation is done, the `Install` button becomes a `Launch` button:


>\- Click on `Launch`


At first launch, you will be asked some information:
- Choose a **username**:
    - one word
    - lowercase
    - no special characters
    - for example: `lewagon` or your `firstname`
- Choose a **password**
- Confirm your password


:warning: When typing the password, nothing will not appear on the screen — there will be no familiar typing indicator even though your keystrokes are being registered!

:warning: This is a security feature to mask not only your password as a whole but also its length!


&nbsp;


&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :white_check_mark: The installation should be complete; you can close the Ubuntu window now that it is installed on your computer.

### Check the WSL version of Ubuntu 


>\- Press `Windows` + `R`  
>\- Type  `cmd`  
>\- Press `Return`


Type the following command:

```bash
wsl -l -v
```

&nbsp;

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :x: If the version of Ubuntu WSL is 1, we will need to convert it to version 2.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :white_check_mark: If the version of Ubuntu WSL is 2, you are ready to install VS Code!


---

#### :wrench: Potential Fixes


<details>
  <summary>Convert Ubuntu WSL V1 to V2</summary>

  
  &nbsp;
  
  
  In the Command Prompt window, type:

  ```bash
  wsl --set-version Ubuntu 2
  ```
  
  &nbsp;

  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :white_check_mark: After a few seconds, you should get the following message: `The conversion is complete`.

  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :x: If it does not work, we need to be sure that Ubuntu files are not compressed.
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Check for Uncompress Files</summary>


  &nbsp;
  >\- Press `Windows` + `R`  
  >\- Type  `%localappdata%\Packages`  
  >\- Press `Return`
  >
  >
  >\- Open the folder named `CanonicalGroupLimited.UbuntuonWindows...`  
  >\- Right Click on the `LocalState` folder  
  >\- Click on `Properties`  
  >\- Click on `Advanced`  
  >\- Make sure that the option `Compress content` is **not** ticked, then click on `Ok`.
  

  Apply changes to this folder only, and try to convert the Ubuntu WSL version again.


  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :x: If the conversion still does not work, please **contact a teacher**.
</details>

---


(You can now close this Command Prompt window.)
