_partials/wsl2_prerequisites.md, before:

# Setup your machine!

Welcome to this setup where we are going to install the tools required to make your machine a true developer environment :muscle:.
The following instructions will help you to get ready for [Le Wagon](http://www.lewagon.org) fullstack bootcamp:

- Install a code editor, where you will spend your days and nights
- Install a package manager
- Pimp your Terminal
- Setup git and GitHub
- Install Ruby



## Prerequisites

Before we start, it is important you meet the following prerequisites to ensure the smooth running of the setup.
Take your time to read through everything and do not hesitate to ask for help if you feel stuck.
Ready? Let's go :sunglasses:

If you already applied all the instructions that we sent you by email, please go directly to the [Virtualization](#Virtualization).


### Latest version of Windows

For this setup, you need to be using the latest version of Windows.

This means that you need to be on Windows 10, with all the latest updates installed.

You can check your software version by clicking on **Start>Settings>System>About**. Look where it says **Edition**. If you see something that starts with "Windows 10..." you're good to go :muscle:.

Not the case? Don't panic :scream: You can always install Windows 10 from [Microsoft]( https://www.microsoft.com/en-gb/windows/get-windows-10) (it should take roughly an hour to install but this is dependent on your computer). Click on **Check for Updates**, then follow the instructions on the screen. Come back to this setup when Windows 10 is installed.

Once you're sure that you're using Windows 10, you will need to check that your computer has all the latest updates. For this click on **Start>Settings>Updates & Security>Windows Update**, then click on **Check updates**. If you have updates available please install them and repeat the process until it says that you are up to date :star:.



### Minimum version

Some of the tools we need to install have been release with the `2004` version of Windows 10 so we need to make sure you have at least this one.
Go to **Start → Settings → System → About**. This time check the **Version**, if it says at least 2004, you are good to go :sunglasses:. 

If not just follow the paragraph above to install the latest updates.

### Virtualization

We need to ensure that the Virtualization options are enabled in the BIOS of your computer.

For many computers, this is already the case. Let's check:

- Press `Ctrl + Alt + Del`.
- Select **Task Manager**.
- Click on the **Performance** tab.
- Click on **CPU**.
- The status will be listed under the graph and will say "Virtualization: Enabled" if this tool is enabled.

![task_manager.jpg](images/task_manager.jpg)

If **Virtualization** is already enabled, go directly to [Github account](https://github.com/lewagon/setup/blob/master/WINDOWS.md#github-account).

If not, we need to enable it, which is a process that is different for each model of computer, so we can only offer vague guidelines in this guide. Please ask a teacher as soon as you get stuck!

Let's retrieve your motherboard model :muscle:

Click on **Start** and type **System Information** and open it.

Locate the **System Model** line, the value on the right is your motherboard model.

Now because everything is dependant on your motherboard model, we will have to do a Google search on how to enable the Virtualization option with this model. 

:warning: We invite you to contact a teacher so you can complete this part of the setup together, as it might be a bit scary to not have clear guidelines. Choose the communication tool of your choice so the teacher can see your screen (your computer will have to be turned off during the setup so please use your phone, WhatsApp, Facetime etc..) :man_mechanic:​ :warning:

If we take my example:

![wsl2_virtualization.png](images/wsl2_virtualization.png)

So I googled "*UX310UA bios enable virtualization*" and the first video in the results taught me how to do it. Part of being a developer is searching for information and applying it to your work :nerd_face:.

Follow the instructions you found to enable Virtualization and come back here, we will be waiting :smile:.

Commit message:

add safe way to get into the bios

_partials/wsl2_prerequisites.md, after:

# Setup your machine!

Welcome to this setup where we are going to install the tools required to make your machine a true developer environment :muscle:.
The following instructions will help you to get ready for [Le Wagon](http://www.lewagon.org) fullstack bootcamp:

- Install a code editor, where you will spend your days and nights
- Install a package manager
- Pimp your Terminal
- Setup git and GitHub
- Install Ruby



## Prerequisites

Before we start, it is important you meet the following prerequisites to ensure the smooth running of the setup.
Take your time to read through everything and do not hesitate to ask for help if you feel stuck.
Ready? Let's go :sunglasses:

If you already applied all the instructions that we sent you by email, please go directly to the [Virtualization](#Virtualization).


### Latest version of Windows

For this setup, you need to be using the latest version of Windows.

This means that you need to be on Windows 10, with all the latest updates installed.

You can check your software version by clicking on **Start>Settings>System>About**. Look where it says **Edition**. If you see something that starts with "Windows 10..." you're good to go :muscle:.

Not the case? Don't panic :scream: You can always install Windows 10 from [Microsoft]( https://www.microsoft.com/en-gb/windows/get-windows-10) (it should take roughly an hour to install but this is dependent on your computer). Click on **Check for Updates**, then follow the instructions on the screen. Come back to this setup when Windows 10 is installed.

Once you're sure that you're using Windows 10, you will need to check that your computer has all the latest updates. For this click on **Start>Settings>Updates & Security>Windows Update**, then click on **Check updates**. If you have updates available please install them and repeat the process until it says that you are up to date :star:.



### Minimum version

Some of the tools we need to install have been release with the `2004` version of Windows 10 so we need to make sure you have at least this one.
Go to **Start → Settings → System → About**. This time check the **Version**, if it says at least 2004, you are good to go :sunglasses:. 

If not just follow the paragraph above to install the latest updates.

### Virtualization

We need to ensure that the Virtualization options are enabled in the BIOS of your computer.

For many computers, this is already the case. Let's check:

- Press `Ctrl + Alt + Del`.
- Select **Task Manager**.
- Click on the **Performance** tab.
- Click on **CPU**.
- The status will be listed under the graph and will say "Virtualization: Enabled" if this tool is enabled.

![task_manager.jpg](images/task_manager.jpg)

If **Virtualization** is already enabled, go directly to [Github account](https://github.com/lewagon/setup/blob/master/WINDOWS.md#github-account).

If not, we need to enable it, which is a process that is different for each model of computer, so we can only offer vague guidelines in this guide. Please ask a teacher as soon as you get stuck!

Let's retrieve your motherboard model :muscle:

Click on **Start** and type **System Information** and open it.

Locate the **System Model** line, the value on the right is your motherboard model.

Now because everything is dependant on your motherboard model, we will have to do a Google search on how to enable the Virtualization option with this model. 

:warning: We invite you to contact a teacher so you can complete this part of the setup together, as it might be a bit scary to not have clear guidelines. Choose the communication tool of your choice so the teacher can see your screen (your computer will have to be turned off during the setup so please use your phone, WhatsApp, Facetime etc..) :man_mechanic:​ :warning:

If we take my example:

![wsl2_virtualization.png](images/wsl2_virtualization.png)

So I googled "*UX310UA bios enable virtualization*" and the first video in the results taught me how to do it. Part of being a developer is searching for information and applying it to your work :nerd_face:.

To access your motherboard settings, click on **Start** and type **recovery options** and open it.

![wsl2_recovery.png](images/wsl2_recovery.png)

Select **Restart now** under **Advanced start-up**

![wsl2_recovery2.png](images/wsl2_recovery2.png)

This will restart the machine and boot into a new menu, in which selecting **Troubleshoot -> Advanced Options -> UEFI Firmware Settings -> Restart** will boot into the motherboard settings where the necessary changes can be made.

Follow the instructions you found to enable Virtualization and come back here, we will be waiting :smile:.
