_partials/wsl2_windows_terminal.md, before:

## Windows Terminal

The standard Ubuntu terminal is a very crude way of using Ubuntu; let's use a real modern terminal!

### Installation

We first need to install **Windows Terminal** from the Microsoft Windows Store:


>\- Click on `Start`
>\- Type  `Microsoft Store`
>\- Click on the Microsoft Windows Store in the list
>
>
>\- Search for `Windows Terminal` in the search bar
>
>
>\- Click on `Install`


Once the installation is done, the `Install` button becomes a `Launch` button:


>\- Click on `Launch`
>\- Right Click on the icon in the taskbar
>\- Choose to pin the app to the bar


This terminal allows you to open multiple terminal sessions, including **PowerShell**, **Command Prompt** and **Ubuntu** that you installed earlier.

This terminal has tabs: you can choose to open a new terminal tab clicking on the **down arrow** / **v-shape** next to the current one.

:warning: From now on, we will only need **Ubuntu** as a terminal.

### Ubuntu as the default terminal

Let's make Ubuntu the default terminal of your Windows Terminal application.


>\- Press `Ctrl` + `,`


It should open the settings:

![wsl2_settings](images/wsl2_settings.jpg)

We have put in red the part we will use or change.


&nbsp;


First, let us ask Ubuntu to start directly inside your Ubuntu Home Directory instead of the Windows one:



>\- Locate the `"name": "Ubuntu",`
>\- Add the following line after it:

```bash
"startingDirectory": "//wsl$/Ubuntu/home/the-username-you-chose-at-the-ubuntu-install",
```

:warning: Do not forget the comma at the end of the line!

:warning: Do not forget to replace the username by your own in the line above!



&nbsp;

Now, let us ask Windows Terminal to start directly an Ubuntu Terminal when launched:




>\- Locate the `"guid"` for Ubuntu
>\- Copy the value between `{` and `}`
>\- Locate the `"defaultProfile"`
>\- Replace the value between `{` and `}` with what you copied from above


:warning: Do not forget to save those changes!

&nbsp;

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :white_check_mark: Voilà, your **Windows Terminal** is setup! :confetti_ball:
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **From now on, every time we will refer to the terminal or the console it will be this one.**

Commit message:

disable multiline pasting warning + update screenshot

_partials/wsl2_windows_terminal.md, after:

## Windows Terminal

The standard Ubuntu terminal is a very crude way of using Ubuntu; let's use a real modern terminal!

### Installation

We first need to install **Windows Terminal** from the Microsoft Windows Store:


>\- Click on `Start`
>\- Type  `Microsoft Store`
>\- Click on the Microsoft Windows Store in the list
>
>
>\- Search for `Windows Terminal` in the search bar
>
>
>\- Click on `Install`


Once the installation is done, the `Install` button becomes a `Launch` button:


>\- Click on `Launch`
>\- Right Click on the icon in the taskbar
>\- Choose to pin the app to the bar


This terminal allows you to open multiple terminal sessions, including **PowerShell**, **Command Prompt** and **Ubuntu** that you installed earlier.

This terminal has tabs: you can choose to open a new terminal tab clicking on the **down arrow** / **v-shape** next to the current one.

:warning: From now on, we will only need **Ubuntu** as a terminal.

### Ubuntu as the default terminal

Let's make Ubuntu the default terminal of your Windows Terminal application.


>\- Press `Ctrl` + `,`


It should open the settings:

![wsl2_settings](images/wsl2_settings.jpg)

We have put in red the part we will use or change.


&nbsp;


First, let us ask Ubuntu to start directly inside your Ubuntu Home Directory instead of the Windows one:



>\- Locate the `"name": "Ubuntu",`
>\- Add the following line after it:

```bash
"startingDirectory": "//wsl$/Ubuntu/home/the-username-you-chose-at-the-ubuntu-install",
```

:warning: Do not forget the comma at the end of the line!

:warning: Do not forget to replace the username by your own in the line above!



&nbsp;

Now, let us ask Windows Terminal to start directly an Ubuntu Terminal when launched:




>\- Locate the `"guid"` for Ubuntu
>\- Copy the value between `{` and `}`
>\- Locate the `"defaultProfile"`
>\- Replace the value between `{` and `}` with what you copied from above
>\- Add a comma after the `defaultProfile` so you can add the `"multiLinePasteWarning": false,` option as well. This will disable an annoying warning every time you want to paste multiple lines to your terminal.

You can refer to the screenshot above to get a sense of how it should look like. Don't hesitate to ask for help.


:warning: Do not forget to save those changes!

&nbsp;

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :white_check_mark: Voilà, your **Windows Terminal** is setup! :confetti_ball:
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **From now on, every time we will refer to the terminal or the console it will be this one.**
