_partials/wsl_browser_variable.md, before:

## Linking your default browser to Ubuntu
To be sure that you can interact with your browser installed on Windows from your new Ubuntu terminal, we need to set it as your default browser there.


<details>
  <summary>Google Chrome as your default browser</summary>

  &nbsp;


  Run the command:

  ```bash
    ls /mnt/c/Program\ Files\ \(x86\)/Google/Chrome/Application/chrome.exe
  ```

  If you get an error like `ls: cannot access...` Run the following command:

  ```bash
    echo "export BROWSER='\"/mnt/c/Program Files/Google/Chrome/Application/chrome.exe\"'" >> ~/.zshrc
  ```

  Else run:

  ```bash
    echo "export BROWSER='\"/mnt/c/Program Files (x86)/Google/Chrome/Application/chrome.exe\"'" >> ~/.zshrc
  ```

</details>


<details>
  <summary>Mozilla Firefox as your default browser</summary>

  &nbsp;


  Run the command:

  ```bash
    ls /mnt/c/Program\ Files\ \(x86\)/Mozilla\ Firefox/firefox.exe
  ```

  If you get an error like `ls: cannot access...` Run the following command:

  ```bash
    echo "export BROWSER='\"/mnt/c/Program Files/Mozilla Firefox/firefox.exe\"'" >> ~/.zshrc
  ```


  ```bash
    echo "export BROWSER='\"/mnt/c/Program Files (x86)/Mozilla Firefox/firefox.exe\"'" >> ~/.zshrc
  ```
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Microsoft Edge as your default browser</summary>

  &nbsp;


  Run the command:


  ```bash
    echo "export BROWSER='\"/mnt/c/Program Files (x86)/Google/Chrome/Application/msedge.exe\"'" >> ~/.zshrc
  ```
</details>


Restart your terminal.

Commit message:

add warning if BROWSER env var is not defined

_partials/wsl_browser_variable.md, after:

## Linking your default browser to Ubuntu
To be sure that you can interact with your browser installed on Windows from your new Ubuntu terminal, we need to set it as your default browser there.

⚠️ You need to execute at least one of the following commands below:


<details>
  <summary>Google Chrome as your default browser</summary>

  &nbsp;


  Run the command:

  ```bash
    ls /mnt/c/Program\ Files\ \(x86\)/Google/Chrome/Application/chrome.exe
  ```

  If you get an error like `ls: cannot access...` Run the following command:

  ```bash
    echo "export BROWSER='\"/mnt/c/Program Files/Google/Chrome/Application/chrome.exe\"'" >> ~/.zshrc
  ```

  Else run:

  ```bash
    echo "export BROWSER='\"/mnt/c/Program Files (x86)/Google/Chrome/Application/chrome.exe\"'" >> ~/.zshrc
  ```

</details>


<details>
  <summary>Mozilla Firefox as your default browser</summary>

  &nbsp;


  Run the command:

  ```bash
    ls /mnt/c/Program\ Files\ \(x86\)/Mozilla\ Firefox/firefox.exe
  ```

  If you get an error like `ls: cannot access...` Run the following command:

  ```bash
    echo "export BROWSER='\"/mnt/c/Program Files/Mozilla Firefox/firefox.exe\"'" >> ~/.zshrc
  ```


  ```bash
    echo "export BROWSER='\"/mnt/c/Program Files (x86)/Mozilla Firefox/firefox.exe\"'" >> ~/.zshrc
  ```
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Microsoft Edge as your default browser</summary>

  &nbsp;


  Run the command:


  ```bash
    echo "export BROWSER='\"/mnt/c/Program Files (x86)/Google/Chrome/Application/msedge.exe\"'" >> ~/.zshrc
  ```
</details>


Please make sure that the following command returns "Browser defined 👌":

```bash
[ -z "$BROWSER" ] && echo "ERROR: please define a BROWSER environment variable ⚠️" || echo "Browser defined 👌"
```

If it does not, choose a browser in the list above and execute the corresponding command.

Restart your terminal.
