_partials/cn/gh_cli.md, before:

## GitHub CLI

CLI是[Command-line Interface（命令行界面）](https://baike.baidu.com/item/%E5%91%BD%E4%BB%A4%E8%A1%8C%E7%95%8C%E9%9D%A2/9910197?fr=aladdin)的首字母缩写。

在这一章节里面，我们会安装[GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/)。这样我们就可以从终端链接GitHub的数据，执行一些有用的动作。

之前执行的命令应该已经安装了GitHub CLI。

首先你需要**登陆**。复制下面的命令（**不要**更改它），然后复制到终端，敲击回车：

:warning: **不要更改下面指令中的`email`**

```bash
gh auth login -s 'user:email' -w
```

你会看到下面的输出结果：

```bash
- Logging into github.com
! First copy your one-time code: 0EF9-D015
- Press Enter to open github.com in your browser...
```

复制那段验证码（code）(在上面的例子中是`0EF9-D015` ），然后敲击`Enter`。

你的浏览器就会打开一个页面让你授权GitHub CLI使用你的GitHub账号。同意，并等待一会儿。

回到终端，再次敲击`回车`，然后就应该好啦:tada:

检查一下你有没有链接好：

```bash
gh auth status
```

如果你看到`Logged in to github.com as <你的GitHub用户名> `，那就可以了。

:x: 如果没有，**问问老师**。

然后运行下面的配置命令:

```bash
gh config set git_protocol ssh
```

Commit message:

22q4 setup bug bash (#369)
* remove ssh key partial

* fix typo and add warning

* remove ssh_key partials

* adding a link to the cheatsheet section in the intro

* add emoji

* build

* setup guides generated

* move curl installation up along with other cli tools

* add escaped double quote to support username with special characters like dash

* Update _partials/gh_cli.md

Co-authored-by: Gaëtan Manchon <34584935+gmanchon@users.noreply.github.com>

* setup guides generated

* replace ENTRÉE by Enter in fr partials and translate gh_cli partial into fr

* translate cli_tools partial in fr and es, search and replace ENTER -> Enter & rebuild

* update whoami command in es

* setup guides generated

* remove useless partials

* setup guides generated

* remove localized git partials

* add extra line break

* setup guides generated

Co-authored-by: github-actions <github-actions@github.com>
Co-authored-by: Gaëtan Manchon <34584935+gmanchon@users.noreply.github.com>

_partials/cn/gh_cli.md, after:

## GitHub CLI

CLI是[Command-line Interface（命令行界面）](https://baike.baidu.com/item/%E5%91%BD%E4%BB%A4%E8%A1%8C%E7%95%8C%E9%9D%A2/9910197?fr=aladdin)的首字母缩写。

在这一章节里面，我们会安装[GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/)。这样我们就可以从终端链接GitHub的数据，执行一些有用的动作。

之前执行的命令应该已经安装了GitHub CLI。

首先你需要**登陆**。复制下面的命令（**不要**更改它），然后复制到终端，敲击回车：

:warning: **不要更改下面指令中的`email`**

```bash
gh auth login -s 'user:email' -w
```

gh will ask you few questions:

`What is your preferred protocol for Git operations?` With the arrows, choose `SSH` and press `Enter`. SSH is a protocol to log in using SSH keys instead of the well known username/password pair.

`Generate a new SSH key to add to your GitHub account?` Press `Enter` to ask gh to generate the SSH keys for you.

If you already have SSH keys, you will see instead `Upload your SSH public key to your GitHub account?` With the arrows, select your public key file path and press `Enter`.

`Enter a passphrase for your new SSH key (Optional)`. Type something you want and that you'll remember. It's a password to protect your private key stored on your hard drive. Then press `Enter`.

:warning: When you type your passphrase, nothing will show up on the screen, **that's normal**. This is a security feature to mask not only your passphrase as a whole but also its length. Just type your passphrase and when you're done, press `Enter`.

你会看到下面的输出结果：

```bash
- Logging into github.com
! First copy your one-time code: 0EF9-D015
- Press Enter to open github.com in your browser...
```

复制那段验证码（code）(在上面的例子中是`0EF9-D015` ），然后敲击`Enter`。

你的浏览器就会打开一个页面让你授权GitHub CLI使用你的GitHub账号。同意，并等待一会儿。

回到终端，再次敲击`回车`，然后就应该好啦:tada:

检查一下你有没有链接好：

```bash
gh auth status
```

如果你看到`Logged in to github.com as <你的GitHub用户名> `，那就可以了。

:x: 如果没有，**问问老师**。
